.TH DQ 1 SYTEK
.ad
.SH NAME
dq - dequeue job(s) from the spool queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
dq [\-Pprinter] [\-] [job # ...] [user ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dq will remove a job, or jobs, from a printer spool queue.
Since the spooling directory is protected from users, using dq is
normally the only method by which a user may remove a job.
.PP
Dq without any arguments will perform one of two possible
actions, depending on whether the currently active job is
owned by the user who invoked dq.  If the active job is owned
by the user, that job alone is removed from the spool queue.
If the job is not owned by the user, dq will remove all jobs
currently in the queue which are owed by the user.
.PP
If the \- flag is specified, dq will remove all jobs which a user
owns.  If the super-user employs this flag, the spool queue will
be emptied entirely.  Note that using the \- flag will remove any
files associated with a user.  In this way a user may cleanse
the spool queue of any rubbish which might have been left there.
.PP
Specifying a user's name, or list of user names, will cause dq
to attempt to remove any jobs queued belonging to that user
(or users).  This form of invoking dq is useful only to the
super-user.
.PP
A user may dequeue an individual job by specifying its job number.
This number may be obtained from the sq(1) program, e.g.
.nf
.sp 1
.in +5
% sq

1st: ken                                [job #908]
        (standard input)      		100 bytes
% dq 908
.in -5
.sp 1
.fi
Dq will announce the names of any files it removes.  If the spool
queue is empty, the message "no entries" will be given.
.PP
Dq will kill off an active daemon, if necessary, before removing
any spooling files.  If a daemon is killed, a new one is
automatically restarted upon completion of file removals.
.PP
The \-P option may be usd to specify the queue associated with a specific
printer (otherwise the default printer, or the value of the PRINTER
variable in the environment is used).
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/printcap           printer characteristics file
SA/DN                   spooling directory (SA = spooling area,
                        DN = daemon name)
SA/DN/LO                lock file used to find out the pid
                        of the current daemon and the job
                        number of the currently active job
                        (LO = name of lock file)
DD/DN                   daemon to restart (DD = daemon directory)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), sq(1), lpd(8)
.SH BUGS
Since there are race conditions possible in the update of the lock file,
the currently active job may be incorrectly identified.
