.TH LPD 8 SYTEK
.ad
.SH NAME
lpd \- line printer daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
/usr/lib/lpd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Lpd is the line printer daemon (spool area handler) invoked by
opr(1), lpr(1), print(1).  It uses the spooling directory
/usr/spool/lpd.  The file
.I lock
in that directory is used to prevent multiple daemons from
becoming active simultaneously, and to store information
about the daemon process for sq(1) and dq(1).  After the
daemon has succesfully set the lock, it scans the directory
for files beginning with ``df.''  Lines in each df file
specify files to be printed or non-printing actions to be
performed.  Each such line begins with a key character
to specify what to do with the remainder of the line.
.in +3
.IP L
Literal.  The line contains identification info from
the password file.
.IP I
Indent.  Changes the default indents for output.  Device
driver must have stty(2)/gtty(2) capability.
.IP M
Send mail to the specified user about the current print job.
.IP F
Formatted File.  Name of file to print.
.IP U
Unlink.  Name of file to remove upon completion of printing.
.IP R
Print file with pr(1).
.IP H
Header title passed to pr(1).
.IP J
Job Name.  Value to be used for job name on burst page.
.IP C
Classification.  Value to be used for classification line
on burst page.
.IP N
File name.  The name of the file which is being printed, or a blank
for the standard input (when lpr is invoked in a pipeline).
.in -5
.PP
An inability to open a file will result in a message being
printed on the system console.  Lpd will try up to 20 times
to reopen a file it expects to be there, after which it will
skip the file to be printed.
.PP
The lock file is maintained in a binary format and holds two numbers.
The first is the process id of the daemon and the second is the job
nuber of the current job being printed.  The latter value is updated to
reflect the current status of lpd for the programs sq(1) and dq(1).
.SH FILES
.nf
/usr/spool/lpd/*	spooling area
/dev/lp			line printer
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), sq(1), dq(1)
