.TH LPR 1 SYTEK
.ad
.SH NAME
lpr, print, opr - off line print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[\-Pprinter] [\-#] [\-i#] [\-C class] [\-J job] [\-crmpH] [name ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lpr
causes the named files to be printed
on the line printer.  If no names
appear, the standard input is assumed.
.PP
.B Lpr,
.B print, and
.B opr
are the same program; the plethora of names
is related to its origin.
.PP
.B Lpr
uses a spooling daemon that does the job when facilities
become available.  The single letter options have the
following meaning:
.IP -r 5
Remove the file upon completion of spooling.
.IP -m 5
Send mail upon completion.
.IP -p 5
Print the files using
.B pr(1).
Page headers and page numbers will be supplied by
.B pr(1).
.IP -H 5
Suppress the printing of the burst page.
.IP -i 5
Print the named files with the indentation specified.
This option is valid only when the
.B lp(5)
device supports the required
.B stty(2)
call.
.PP 
The flag
.B \-C
takes the following argument as a classification
for use on the burst page.  For example,
.sp 1
.ce
lpr -C "Lincoln Labs" foo.c
.sp 1
would cause the system name
to be replaced on the burst page by ``Lincoln Labs'',
and the file foo.c to be printed.
.PP
To get multiple copies of output, use the \-# flag,
where ``#'' is the number of copies desired of each file
named.  For example,
.sp 1
.ce
lpr -3 foo.c bar.c more.c
.sp 1
would result in 3 copies of the file foo.c, followed by 3 copies
of the file bar.c, etc.  On the other hand, 
.sp 1
.ce
cat foo.c bar.c more.c | lpr -3
.sp 1
will give three copies of the concatenation of the files.
.PP
The line printer spooler will try to "link" the named files
into the spooling area whenever possible.  This will happen
if you are on the same file system, or if you specify a file
name by its full pathname.  Otherwise, the file will be copied
into the spooling area before printing by the daemon.
.PP
The \-P option may be used to force output to a specific printer.  Normally,
the default printer is used (site dependent), or the value of the
environment variable PRINTER is used.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/passwd       	personal identification
/etc/printcap      printer capabilities data base
DD/DN              line printer daemon (DD = daemon directory,
                   DN = daemon name)
SA/DN              spooling area directory (SA = spooling area)
SA/DN/df*          daemon control files
SA/DN/cf*          copied files specified in ``df'' files
SA/DN/lf*          linked files specified in ``df'' files
SA/DN/tf*          ``df'' files during construction
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dq(1), sq(1), lpd (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If you try to spool too large a file, send a binary file,
or if the file does not exist, lpr will
object.  Diagnostics may be printed on the console
regarding missing spool files by lpd(5).
.SH BUGS
Lpr may be fooled into thinking a file is inaccessible when
a user's effective group id allows access, but the real group
id does not.
