.TH PRINTCAP 5
.SH NAME
printcap \- printer capability data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/printcap
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Printcap
is a simplified version of the
.I termcap(5)
data base
used to describe line printers.  The spooling system accesses the
.I printcap
file every time it is used, allowing for the dynamic
addition and deletion of printers.  Each entry in the data base
is used to describe one printer.  This data base may not be
substituted for, as is possible for 
.IR termcap ,
because it may allow accounting to be bypassed.
.PP
Each entry must contain the printer and daemon name
to allow the daemon to identify the
.I printcap
entry it should
use.  The default printer is normally 
.IR lp ,
though the environment
variable
.I PRINTER
may be used to override this.  Each spooling
utility supports an option,
.IR \-Pprinter ,
to allow explicit
naming of a destination printer.
.SH CAPABILITIES
Refer to
.I termcap
for a description of the file layout.
.nf

.ta \w'k0-k9  'u +\w'Type  'u +\w'"/dev/console"  'u
\fBName	Type	Default	Description\fR
af	str	NULL	name of accounting file
dn	str		spooling daemon's short name (e.g. lpd)
dd	str	"/usr/lib"	directory prefix of daemon
du	num		uid of daemon user
ff	str	"\ef"	string to send for a form feed
ic	bool	false	driver supports (non standard) ioctl
			call for indenting printout
lf	str	"/dev/console"	error logging file name
lo	str	"lock"	name of lock file
lp	str		device name to open for output
mx	num	1000	maximum file size (in BUFSIZ blocks) to spool
of	str	NULL	name of output filtering program
sa	str	"/usr/spool"	directory prefix to spooling area
sf	bool	false	suppress a form feed before printing each file
sh	bool	false	suppress printing of burst page header
.fi
.PP
Any capabilities which do not have a default specified must be
defined in the data base.
.PP
Error messages sent to the console have a carriage return and a line
feed appended to them, rather than just a line feed.
.PP
If the local line printer driver supports indentation, the daemon
must understand how to invoke it.
.SH BUGS
The printer descriptions should be merged with those of
.IR termcap ,
but naming conflicts preclude this right now.
