.TH REMOTE 5 SYTEK
.ad
.SH NAME
remote \- remote host description file
.ad
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/remote
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Remote
is a data base describing remote hosts,
used by
.IR tip (1).
Hosts are described in
.I remote
by giving a set of capabilities which they have, and by describing
how operations are performed.
.I Remote
format is virtually identical to that of
.IR termcap (5)
(in fact most of the library routines are identical to those of
.IR termcap ,
except for the names).
.PP
Entries in
.I remote
consist of a number of `:' separated fields.
The first entry for each host gives the names which are known for the
host, separated by `|' characters.  
The first name given is the most common abbreviation for the host, and the
last name given should be a long name fully identifying the host.
The first name should contain no blanks; the last name may well contain
blanks for readability.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.nf

.ta \w'Name  'u +\w'Type  'u +\w'Default  'u
\fBName	Type	Default	Description\fR
at	str		auto call unit type (see below)
br	num	300	baud rate for connection
cm	str		message sent upon establishing connection 
cu	str	(dv)	call unit device, if dialed up
du	bool	false	host must be ``dialed up''
el	str	"\er"	characters indicating end of logical line
fs	num	512	frame size (for buffering local writes)
hw	bool	false	device is ``hard-wired'' (e.g. DF, direct lines)
ie	str		input EOF indicators
oe	str		output EOF string
pn	str		list of phone numbers, or indirect operator `@'
tc	str		entry to use for remainder of description
.fi
.PP
.B A Sample Entry
.PP
The following entry, which describes a fictious host, illustrates
the use of the auto dialing capabilities.
.PP
.nf
du|dialer|generic DN-11 call unit description:\e
        :dv=/dev/cul1:br#1200:cu=/dev/cua1:du:at=dn11:
/6|case|case/6|Case Western Reserve Harris /6:\e
        :el=^U^C^R^O^S^Q:ie=@:oe=^Z:pn=434-292-0600,233-9999:\e
        :tc=dialer:
.fi
.PP
Entries may continue onto multiple lines by giving a \e as the last
character of a line, and empty fields
may be included for readability (here between the last field on a line
and the first field on the next).
Capabilities in
.I remote
are of three types:
Boolean capabilities which indicate that the host has
some particular feature (or that some particular feature of the connection
program should be used; here use of an auto call unit),
numeric capabilities, and string
capabilities, which give a sequence which can be used to perform
particular operations.
.PP
Note that, where reasonable, capabilities support
a list of alternatives (separated
by commas).  At present 
only the \fBdv\fR and \fBpn\fR capabilities utilize this.
.PP
.B Types of Capabilities
.PP
All capabilities have two letter codes.  For instance, the fact that
.I case
may be reached only by phone is indicated by the \fBdu\fR capability.
Numeric capabilities are followed by the character `#' and then the value.
Thus \fBbr\fR which indicates the baud rate to be used in establishing a
connection gives the value `1200' for 
.IR case .
.PP
Finally, string valued capabilities, such as \fBel\fR (end of line indicators)
are given by the two character code, an `=', and then a string
ending at the next following `:'.
.PP
A number of escape sequences are provided in the string valued capabilities
for easy encoding of characters there.  A \fB\eE\fR maps to an ESCAPE
character, \fB^x\fR maps to a control-x for any appropriate x, and the sequences
\fB\en \er \et \eb \ef\fR give a newline, return, tab, backspace and formfeed.
Finally, characters may be given as three octal digits after a \fB\e\fR,
and the characters \fB^\fR and \fB\e\fR may be given as \fB\e^\fR and
\fB\e\e\fR.
If it is necessary to place a \fB:\fR in a capability it must be escaped in
octal as \fB\e072\fR.
.br
.ne 5
.PP
.B Preparing Descriptions
.PP
The most effective way to prepare a host description is by imitating
the description of a similar host in
.I remote
and use the \fBtc\fR
capability for sharing common definitions.
.PP
Systems which are connected via a direct connection (e.g. an RS-232 line
between two teminal ports) should specify the device to open as
\fBdv\fR, and the baud rate, if other than 300 baud, as \fBbr\fR.
Systems which may only be reached by phone must add the call
unit device, \fBcu\fR, call unit type, \fBat\fR,
phone numbers to be used, \fBpn\fR, and the boolean \fBdu\fR
to indicate the host is ``dialed up''.
If the connection uses only a single line (i.e. it isn't a DN-11
like call unit) \fBhw\fR must be specified.
.PP
.I Tip
currently supports the following auto call units:
.nf

.ta \w'at Name  'u +\w'DF02,DF03  'u
\fBName	Type	Description\fR
df	DF02,DF03	DEC DF02-AC and DF03-AC
dn11	DN-11	DEC DN-11/Able Quadracall
bizw	BIZCOMP	BIZCOMP 1302 using tone dialing
bizf	BIZCOMP	BIZCOMP 1302 using pulse dialing
.fi
.PP
Phone numbers may be placed directly in the
.I remote
file or may be placed in a secondary, private file.  By default
this secondary file is
.IR /etc/phones ,
however, if the
.B PHONES
variable is exported,
.I tip
will try and find the phone number there.  This file is
comprised of a series of lines of the form
.ce
system-name\ \[\ \et\]*\ phone-number
Refer to
.IR tip (1)
for a description of the use of this file.
.PP
The \fBel\fR string is used by
.IR tip (1)
to decide when a logical end-of-line has been reached.  This is
important, as
.I tip
will only recognize an escape sequence after an end-of-line.
Normally the special characters recognized by a remote host are
specified (kill character, suspend/resume output, etc.).
.PP
The \fBie\fR and \fBoe\fR strings are used by
.I tip
for file transfer.  When sending a file to a remote host,
.I tip
will terminate the transmission by sending the ``output eof'',
\fBoe\fR, string.  When receiving a file from a remote host, the
\fBie\fR string, if seen at the beginning of a line,
is interpreted as the end of transmission.  Normally \fBie\fR
is set to the remote system's prompt character and \fBoe\fR
is set to the remote system's end-of-file character(s).
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/remote	file containing host descriptions
.SH SEE ALSO
tip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
These routines are modified versions of the
.I termcap
data base which was written by William Joy.
.SH BUGS
.I Tip
allows only 256 characters for string capabilities, and the routines
in
.I tip
do not check for overflow of this buffer.
The total length of a single entry (excluding only escaped newlines)
may not exceed 1024.
.PP
The \fBhw\fR stuff is a late hack caused by supporting DN-11's,
and should go away soon.
.PP
The information common to
.IR uucp (1)
should be shared.
