.TH SQ 1 SYTEK
.ad
.SH NAME
sq - spool queue examination program
.SH SYNOPSIS
sq [+[n]] [\-Pprinter] [user ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sq will examine the spooling area used by lpd(8) in printing
files to the line printer, and report the status of all jobs
associated with a user, or users.  Sq invoked without any arguments
will report on any jobs currently in the queue.  A \-P flag may be used
to specify a particular printer, otherwise the default line printer
is used (or the value of the PRINTER variable in the environment).
If a \+ argument is supplied sq will display the spool queue
until it empties.  Supplying a number immediately
after the \+ sign indicates that sq should sleep \fIn\fR seconds
in between scans of the queue.
Any other arguments supplied will
be interpreted as user names and used to filter out only those
jobs associated with the named users.
.PP
Sq's report shows for each job submitted (i.e. invocation
of lpr(1)) the user's name, current rank in the queue, the
names of files comprising the job, and the job identifier (a number which
may be supplied to dq(1) for removing a specific job).
Job ordering is dependent on
the algorithm used to scan the spooling directory, and tends
to be FIFO (First in First Out).
File names comprising a job may be unavailable
(when lpr(1) is used as a sink in a pipeline) in which case the file
is indicated as ``(standard input)''.
The size of a file is reported in bytes.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/passwd             for user names
/etc/termcap            for manipulating the screen for
                        repeated display
/etc/printcap           to determine printer characteristics
SA/DN                   the spooling directory, as determined
                        from /etc/printcap (SA = spooling area,
                        DN = daemon name)
SA/DN/df*               daemon files specifying a job
SA/DN/LO                the lock file to obtain the pid
                        the currently active job (LO = lock file)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), dq(1), lpd(8)
.SH BUGS
Due to the dynamic nature of the information in the spooling directory
sq may report unreliably.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Unable to open various files.  The lock file being malformed.  Garbage
files when there is no daemon active, but files in the spooling directory.
