.TH CALLS 1 21/12/77
.SH NAME
calls \- print out calling pattern of functions in a program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calls
.RB [- t ]
.RB [- v ]
.RB [- w
.IR nn ]
.RI [ function
\&...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Calls
accepts from standard input data which should
be the source of a programme, and outputs the analyzed calling pattern to
standard output. 
It is intended to help analyze the flow of a programme by laying out
the functions called in the manner used in "Software Tools". For example:
.PP
.nf
.B "1	main"
.B "2		abc"
.B "3			a"
.B "4				^ abc ^"
.B "5			b"
.B "6		def"
.B "7			d"
.B "8			e [ext]"
.fi
.PP
in which
.I main
calls
.I abc
and
.IR def ,
.I abc
calls
.I a
and
.I b
which are defined within the same source file,
and
.I def
calls
.I d
(defined in the same source)
and
.IR e ,
which is presumably a library program or defined in a different
source file.
The function
.I a
calls
.I abc
in a recursive loop.
Options,
(which may be interspersed among
.I function
arguments) are:
.TP
.RB - t
Provides a terse form of output,
in which the calling pattern for any
.I function
is printed only once,
on the first occurrence of the
.IR function .
Subsequent occurrences output the
.I function
name,
and a notation
.BI ...\ [see\ line\  xx ].
This is the default option.
.TP
.RB - terse
Same as
.RB `- t '.
.TP
.RB - v
Full output of
.I function
calling patterns on every occurrence.
.TP
.RB - verbose
Same as
.RB `- v '.
.TP
.BI -w\  nn
Set the output paper width to
.IR nn .
Default is 132.
.TP
.BI -width\  nn
Same as
.BI `-w\  nn '.
.PP
.I Function
names within the input programme may be selected as roots
of the layout (default ``main'' in C).
For example, using the previous programme:
.PP
.B "        calls def abc <programme"
.PP
gives:
.PP
.nf
.B "1	def"
.B "2		d"
.B "3		e [ext]"
.B "4	abc"
.B "5		a"
.B "6			^ abc ^"
.B "7		b"
.fi
.PP
.I Functions
not referenced within the source file are shown as
.PP
.B "#		function [ext]"
.br
where `#' is the line number of the output.
.PP
Recursive references are shown as
.PP
.B "#		^ function ^"
.SH "U OF T INFO"
Written by M.M. Taylor at DCIEM.
.SH BUGS
Many intended features are not implemented,
notably flags
.RB - g
(list globals used),
and
.RB - f
and
.RB - p
(Fortran and Pascal languages).
