.TH CPTREE I "23 May 1979"
.SH NAME
cptree \- copy an entire file system subtree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cptree
.RB [- d ]
.RB [- l ]
.I fromdir
.I todir
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directory
.I fromdir
and all its contained files
are copied into correspondingly-named files in directory
.IR todir .
All subdirectories (including
.I todir
itself) are created as required,
and the new files replace any with the same names
which may already exist in
.IR todir .
Links between files within the subtree
.I fromdir
will be reflected within
.IR todir :
the copies will also be linked.
.RI ( Cptree
also attempts to make the owner and group id's of the new files
match those of the originals,
but this is effective only if the command is invoked
by the super-user.)
.PP
The flag
.RB `- d '
causes the directory structure of
.I fromdir
to be copied within
.IR todir ,
but no other files are copied.
If
.RB `- l '
is specified,
links to the original files are made, instead of copies.
.PP
To guard against possible infinite recursion
caused by specifying a target directory which is itself contained
within the source directory,
no attempt will be made to copy into a directory
which has been modified since the time
.I cptree
started running.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR cp (I),
.IR mv (I),
.IR mkdir (I),
.IR ln (I)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Several; all self-explanatory.
.br
Exits with a code of 0 if no errors were encountered,
and with 1 otherwise.
.SH "U OF T INFO"
Written at the University of Toronto by Ron Gomes.
.SH BUGS
Depends on the undocumented fact that
.IR mkdir (I)
returns with an exit code of 0 if it successful
and 1 if it is not.
.br
Should perhaps attempt to make the
modification date of the new files
correspond to those of the originals;
but there is no simple way of doing this in v6 UNIX,
and in any case it would affect only the use of
.I cptree
by the super-user.
