.TH CU 1
.DA "" Sept 1978
.SH NAME
cu \- call UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR cu
[
.BR -f
]
[
.BR -h
]
[
.BR -s
speed
]
[
.BR -l
line
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Cu
is used to communicate with a remote UNIX system via a UNIX tty port.
It is intended to be a subset of the PWB/UNIX version, for use on
systems not licensed for PWB.
It does not provide the file transfer facilities of the PWB version, nor
does it provide automatic dialing.
.PP
When it is invoked, it turns your terminal into a terminal which
is connected to the remote line.
The standard input is transmitted to the remote line, and characters
received from the remote line are sent to the standard output.
When end of file is detected on the standard input,
.IR cu
exits, and returns the terminal to the local UNIX.
.PP
If
.BR -h
is given as an option, \fIcu\fR operates in half-duplex (local echo)
mode.
.IR Speed
gives the transmission speed.
1200 baud is the default.
.IR Line
is used to override the default communications line.
The line given must be a single character, e.g. 'k' for
dial-out on ttyk.
.PP
If the communications line is in use with another invocation of
.IR cu ,
you will not be allowed on. The line can be "forced" open with the
.BR -f
flag. However, since the other connected terminal will still be
listening and picking up about half of the transmitted characters,
this option is unlikely to be of much use. (All it does
is remove the lock file.)
.PP
Input lines which begin with "~" have special meanings.
The interpretations currently implemented are:\ 
.PP
.nf
	~.	terminate the conversation
	~EOT	terminate the conversation
	~~...	send the line "~..."
	~!command    run the command on the LOCAL shell.
.fi
.PP
.IR Cu
will send a break to the remote system when the break key is pressed,
provided the communications line is capable of it.
.PP
If one is dialing out, it is suggested that the connection first be
established, and then
.IR cu
invoked.
.SH FILES
/dev/cul0	link to default tty line 
.br
/tmp/cu.lock*	lock file
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Unimplemented command - you typed a line beginning with ~ followed
by a character not in the list above.

Exit codes: 0 normally; 1 for error; 2 for signal interrupt.
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Tilson (from N. Kaden, from T. Duff,  from Waterloo, from ...).
Lock file and local shell command added by Dave Sherman.
.SH BUGS
Could use a re-write.
.PP
The character "~" is taken to have special
meaning only if the last character typed was a newline or an EOT.
Thus, if the last thing you typed was a rubout, etc., you must type
one newline before typing "~.".
