.TH DANL 1m March/77
.SH NAME
danl \- dump analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B danl
.RB [- p ]
.RB [- c ]
.I dump
.I system
.RI [ pc ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is used to produce a formatted dump of the system (better do
it on the line-printer).
.I Dump
is a file containing a dump produced by the system dumper.
.I System
is the file containing the a.out of the system that produced the dump
(used to get a namelist).
.I Pc
is optional,
and is the pc read off the lights when the system crashed.
It is used (if given) to trace back the process that was executing when the
system crashed.
.PP
The output of
.I danl
is divided into two parts.
First, for each process that was running, its per-process area
(called u) is dumped (formatted), and a traceback is produced (if the process
was in core
when the dump was taken).
The traceback consists of the address in the routine at which the call occurred
and the routines r2, r3, and r4 at the time of the call
(these correspond to the register variables of the routine).
Then a formatted dump of the system's data and bss segments is produced.
.PP
If
.B -p
is specified,
only the per-process areas are dumped.
.PP
If
.B -c
is specified,
only the system's data and bss are dumped.
.PP
In the dump, numbers followed by a decimal point are decimal, and
those not followed by a decimal point are octal.
Characters which are not
printable are printed in the style "\\000".
Block I/O buffers are formatted as if they were super-blocks, since that
is what is most often wanted.
.PP
The program contains an internal table of how to format various items.
If there is no table entry, formatting is in octal words.
If the table entry does not correspond to the current version of the
system, things will be wrong.
(I.e. if some structure has a new field.)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
Arg count --
if you don't specify enough names.
.TP
Table overflow --
if there are more symbols in the system namelist than it can handle.
.TP
No proc table --
if the name ``_proc'' is not defined in the namelist.
.TP
Out of sync --
if a table appears not to have an integral number of entries.
(This is invariably due to the fact the string storage,
etc. comes at the end of some table.
This message can generally be ignored).
.TP
Symbol file error --
if the namelist file acts up.
.TP
Dump file error --
if the dump file is unreasonable (e.g. if an address doesn't exist).
.TP
Traceback aborted --
if the traceback for a given process goes to more than 60 calls.
.SH "U of T INFO"
Written at the University of Toronto by
Tom Duff.
.SH BUGS
Sometimes produces spurious "traceback aborted" messages (but the
traceback is ok).
Doesn't print the first routine in a traceback.
You can't tell the bytes from the words.
Uses too much paper.
