.TH HUF 1 "1979 May 31"
.SH NAME
huf \- encode and decode Huffman coded text files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B huf
.BI [-npuw n ]
.RI [ name ]
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Huf
is a program for compressing ASCII text files.
Text compression depends on the repetition of
.IR words ,
that is,
strings of alphanumeric characters.
On average, a compressed file is about half the size of the original.
The arguments to this command are a sequence of file
.IR name s
and flags.
.PP
A
.I file
whose
.I name
ends in ``H'' is decoded into a
.I file
with the same path
.IR name ,
minus the ``H'' (unless the
.RB `` p ''
option is used).
.PP
A
.I file
whose
.I name
does not end in ``H'' is encoded
into a
.I file
with the same path
.IR name ,
plus an ``H''
(unless the
.RB `` p ''
option is used).
The encoding process takes two passes,
requiring that the
.I file
not be a device.
The
.I file
must not be modified while being encoded.
.PP
A flag starts with ``-'' and continues with any number
of options.
.TP
.B n
The noisy option causes various statistics to be printed on
the diagnostic output.
The flag complements the option which is initially off.
.TP
.B p
The print option causes the output to be printed on the standard output
(even if this output is encoded).
The flag complements the option which is initially off.
.TP
.B u
The unlink option causes the input file to be unlinked.
If any error is detected during translation, it is not unlinked.
The flag complements the option which is initially off.
.TP
.BI w n
This option sets the upper bound on the number of unique words allowed
in a file to be encoded.
This bound is set to the smallest prime number greater than
.I n
that is known to the program.
The default bound is 1567.
.SH "U of T INFO"
Written at U of T by D. Hugh Redelmeier.
