.TH LASTLOG 1m "23 September 1977"
.SH NAME
lastlog \- report a previous terminal session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lastlog
.RB [- w
.IR wtmp ]
[
.RI [- list ]
.IR userid ...]
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lastlog
uses the login accounting information
in the file /usr/adm/wtmp
to determine the login and logout times
and the teletype number
of a previous terminal session
of a given user.
(If the first argument given is `-w',
the argument following is taken
as the name of a file to be used in place
of /usr/adm/wtmp.)
Arguments consist of
.IR userid s
and flags of the form
.RI ``- list ''.
The items in
.I list
are comma-separated --
each is either
a number `n'
or a range `n-m'
indicating the previous terminal session
or range of previous terminal sessions
desired:
-1 denotes the most recent session,
-2 the second-to-last,
-3-1 the third-to-last through the last,
-1-3,5 the last through the third-to-last and the fifth-to-last,
etc.
Any
.I list
flag applies to all subsequent
.IR userid s
in the argument list
until the appearance of another
.RI - list .
If no such flag precedes a list of
.IR userid s,
`-1' is assumed.
If
.RI - list
is used but no
.I userid
is supplied,
the id of the invoking process is used.
If no arguments at all are supplied,
the id of the invoking process is used
and `-2' is assumed.
(Thus typing simply `lastlog'
reports your previous terminal session
and not the current one.)
.PP
Thus `lastlog joe sam'
reports the most recent terminal sessions of users joe and sam,
and
`lastlog -2-4,6 joe fred -3 sam'
reports the next-to-last through 4th-to-last
and the 6th-to-last
sessions of joe and fred
and the 3rd-to-last session of sam.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/wtmp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR wtmp (V),
.IR ac (VIII),
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`userid not found' -- the requested terminal session
does not exist within recorded history.
.br
`Can\'t open wtmp'
.br
`Bad arg'
.SH "U OF T INFO"
Written at the University of Toronto by Ron Gomes.
.SH BUGS
Reports only the nth-to-last
.IR login ,
which may or may not correspond to the nth-to-last
.IR logout .
.br
Trusts implicitly the information
in /usr/adm/wtmp
regarding the time of the last crash.
