.TH MODCHECK 1 9/May/78
.SH NAME
modcheck \- checks if files were modified since the user last checked
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modcheck
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Modcheck
will let a user know if a file (such a /usr/news/.mail)
has been modified since the user checked last. The user must have
a file in the current directory called ".modcheck" which
contains a list of filenames (one per line) with an (optional)
associated message to be printed if the file (exists and) was modified
since
.I modcheck
was last called from the directory. The filename is seperated from
the message by either a blank or a tab. The message is everthing
up to and including the next newline, and since the C-statement
`printf(message,filename,date-modified)' is used, you can use any
string printf will accept, such as the default message (only
a filename on the line) "%s\ was\ modified\ %s".
.I Modcheck
will also put the time it checks in the .timecheck file
in printable form.
.PP
You may want to call
.I modcheck
from your .prof with a .modcheck file containing entries such as:
.nf
/usr/news/.mail Hot news!
/usr/gripe/.mail New gripe.
a.out	%s from %s: goes away soon!
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
 .modcheck
the one in the working directory will be used.
.TP
 .timecheck
contains the date modcheck was last used.
The "date-modified" is what the program uses.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
self-explanatory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR make (I),
.IR printf (III)
.SH "U OF T INFO"
Written by neil to check news files; made more general after a suggestion
from hugh.
