.TH NEWS I "4 July 1980"
.SH NAME
bug \- list/enter a report of bugs in the system
.br
gripe - list/enter complaints and beefs
.br
local - list/enter a report of local changes to system
.br
news  - list/enter news and general information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bug
.RB [ pso ]
.br
.B gripe
.RB [ pso ]
.br
.B local
.RB [ pso ]
.br
.B news
.RB [ pso ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Bug ,
.IR gripe ,
.IR local ,
and
.I news
are syntactically identical,
and are used to either list their associated files,
or append new entries to them.
The contents of the files are:
.TP
.IR bug --
system bugs and serious outstanding problems
.TP
.IR gripe --
complaints and beefs about the system
.TP
.IR local --
recently made changes to the system
.TP
.IR news --
news and information of general interest
.PP
The legal options are:
.TP
.B p
print the associated file
.TP
.B s
submit a new item for inclusion in the associated file
.TP
.B o
print the associated file of old/out-of-date items
.PP
The default option in all cases is
.RB ` p '.
The purpose of the old files is to keep
items available for a while without making the listing file unduly long.
A short current file also speeds the submission of new items.
In the case of
.I bug
and
.IR gripe ,
replies and information about fixes will
appear following each item listed.
.PP
Gripes are kept in the file /usr/spool/mail/gripe.
This file is writable by any user, thus anyone may append comments or replies 
to a gripe by using the editor.
Currently no one is responsible
for answering gripes, thus users are encouraged to lend their
(considerable) expertise to aid their fellow users.
.SH FILES
(Here <fn> represents any of bug, gripe, local, or news)
/usr/spool/mail/<fn>  (the <fn> listing file of current items)
.br
/usr/spool/mail.old/<fn>   (the old <fn> listing file)
.br
/bin/mail        (to update the files)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mail (I)
.SH "U of T INFO"
Written at the University of Toronto CSRG by Chris Leyerle, based on
previous efforts by Henry Spencer and Mike Tilson.
.IR Gripe ,
.IR local ,
and
.I news
were combined into one program to save space.
Bug has been added in order to have a method of reporting
serious system faults apart from the oft-abused gripe command.
Please use it as intended.
.SH BUGS
There should be a mechanism other than
.I news
for making and purging system reservations.
The use of
.I ed
to answer gripes is unfortunate,
as replies can get clobbered when two or more users are editing the file.
