.TH P I "30 May 1979"
.SH NAME
p \- paginate output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B p
.RI [- nnn ]
.RI [-s nnn
.RB [ lpg ]]
.RB [- b ]
.RB [- r ]
.RI [ file
\&...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I P
is used to break up output into groups of lines,
of convenient size for CRT viewing,
with pauses between groups.
When a group ends, the cursor is left at the end of the last line
of the group;
giving
.I p
a newline causes the next group to be displayed.
If the last line of the group is a null line, several tabs are
supplied so that the cursor is visibly displaced to the right.
.PP
.I P
also swallows control characters
and can be told to suppress overprinting.
It understands formfeeds and produces the appropriate number of
newlines to bring output to the top of a new page.
It accounts for wraparound, backspaces and tabs when calculating the length
of a group.
.PP
.I P
prints the
.IR file s
given;
if none are given, it prints its standard input.
When more than one
.I file
is given,
it prints a header including the
.IR file 's
name before each
.IR file .
.PP
The following options are understood:
.TP
.RI - nnn
make groups
.I nnn
lines long.
.TP
.RI -s nnn \ [lpg]
skip first
.I nnn
lines, pages, or groups.  Groups is the default.
.TP
.RB - b
swallow backward motions and overprinted characters.
.TP
.RB - r
pass all characters through untouched.
.PP
.I P
knows about terminals;
the group size is 33 if the terminal will handle it, 22 otherwise.
Backward motion can also be selectively disabled for particular
terminals, although at present we do not use this.
.PP
If the
.IR file s
given cannot be found, but one with a similar name
is found,
.I p
will ask whether that is the file you intended.
A line beginning with a 'n' means no,
anything else means yes.
.SH "U OF T INFO"
Written by Henry Spencer to replace an older version.
Modified by Dave Sherman to include file name spelling correction.
Modified by Tom O'Dell to handle wraparound.
Cleaned up and simplified by Henry Spencer.
