.TH YFR 1
.DA 30 January 1979
.SH NAME
yfr \- UNIX to UNIX file transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR yfr
[
.BR -s
speed
]
[
.BR -l
line
]
[
.BR -p
localfile
]
remotefile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Yfr
is used to transfer files between UNIX systems.
A copy of
.IR yfr
is required on both systems.
A login is established on the remote system using a program such
as
\fIcu\fR(1).
One then exits back to the local system, and invokes
.IR yfr
to do the desired file transfer.
.PP
If no options are specified,
.IR remotefile
is transfered from the remote system to the standard output.
If
.BR -p
is specified,
.IR yfr
transfers (puts) a copy of
.IR localfile
to
.IR remotefile
on the remote system.
.PP
.IR Speed
gives the transmission speed.
300 is the default.
.IR Line
is used to override the default communications line.
.PP
.IR Yfr
expects that a UNIX shell is listening on the remote system, and that
an "yfr" command may be issued to the remote shell.
.PP
.IR Yfr
may be used on any speed line without fear of overloading UNIX
tty handling, because there is full hand-shaking between yfr's.
Information is copied in 50 byte blocks, with checksums and expansion
of binary information.
The overhead introduced by this is about 20% for ascii text, and up to
300% for binary information.
Within any block,
.IR yfr
can generally tolerate any one character added, missing, or wrong.
It does not work very well in the face of severe line disturbances, however.
.PP
When the
local
.IR yfr
stops, it generally
tries to stop the remote one.
If this does not happen (e.g. the local system crashed, and the remote
is still waiting) one may establish a connection (via
\fIcu\fR)
and type three consecutive newlines in order to stop things.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cu(1)
.SH FILES
/dev/cul0	link to default tty line
.SH "U of T INFO"
Written by Mike Tilson
of Human Computing Resources.
Yfr is a re-write of an older communications program called xfr.
Xfr is no longer supported.
.SH BUGS
Error recovery could be better.
Overhead could be lower.
.br
Remote file name is not printed in error messages.
.br
Error messages reported by the remote yfr command are not printed locally
and cryptic behavior can sometimes result.
