.TH RMTMNT 8  "18 October 1985"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rmtmnt \- mount and dismount remote file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/rmtmnt
[ -s internet-service ] host path
.PP
.B /etc/rmtmnt
-g path
.PP
.B /etc/rmtmnt
-u path
.PP
.B /etc/rmtmnt
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the first usage,
.I rmtmnt
announces to the system that the file system
starting with the root, aka "/", on the internet host named
.I host
has been mounted on
the plain file
.I path;
from now on, references to any files below
.I path
will refer to
files below the root file system on the remote host,
.I host.
The file
.I path
must exist already; it must be a file.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted root.
.PP
The optional flag
.I \-s
and argument
.I internet-service
indicates that the kernel should use
the named internet service (defined in /etc/services)
when connecting to that remote host.
.PP
The second usage with the
.I -g
flag indicates that the mount point is to be "generic".
By convention,
the name of this path ought to be
.I /net,
but may be any valid path name.
No specific host is associated with the
path name.
Instead,
the component following
.I /net
is handed to the nameserver, usually
.I rfs_server(8),
for translation to an internet address.
When the kernel receives the new address,
an implicit mount is made by the kernel.
.PP
The third usage with the
.I -u
flag informs the kernel that the internet host
mounted on
.I path
should be unmounted.
.PP
The last usage,
having no arguments or flags
will print out a complete status of all current mount points.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
remoteon(2),
rfs_server(8).
.SH BUGS
Imlicit mount points cannot be unmounted.
.PP
If a command which has a current working directory
on a remote machine through an
.I implicit
mount point
attempts to find the current working directory,
it will produce a pathname missing the second component,
and, hence, will fail.
Explicit mount points work fine.
