 This is a commenting disassembler for 6502 machine language,
for the Commodore 128 (but easily modified for any other 6502 based
machine, see notes below).  It disassembles code for human
perusal, not for feeding into an assembler (I use Merlin and the
Sourceror for that). 

Modification notes:
     Currently, it comments the code with Commodore-128 specific
stuff.  However, it uses a hash table and a .labels file for most
stuff, so altering it to work with another 6502 based computer would
be childs play (although it'll take awhile to type in another .labels
file). One thing to look at: currently, for efficiency reasons, all of
zero page's comments are contained in tables.h in a static array of
*char (the distribution is too close on the 128, which uses every byte
of zero page -- it would wreck havoc with the hash/rehash scheme).
You'll have to change these labels for your computer. Also, note that
in dsm.c there is code that detects references to screen and color
memory. That will need to be yanked out for non-CBM computers.

     I would especially be grateful if someone would type in the
labels for the Commodore 64... I simply have no time to spend on
typing in a thousand lines or so of labels. Also, if someone knows of
a listing of C-128 ROM entries, would be grateful if they'd tell me
where I can get ahold of it. I'm interested in learning more about my
new machine. Finally, does anybody know of a semi-decent linking
assembler for 6502 assembly language? I'm so tired of dealing with
hundreds of global labels... fixing instances where I have 5 labels
named "loop" gets old after awhile.

     This was just a two-day hack, so please leave any suggestions in
my mailbox (I expect there will be quite a few). Maybe we can turn it
into a four-day hack...

  Eric Green (akgua,ut-sally)!usl!elg
