.TH ANSWER 1L 
.ad b
.SH NAME
answer - phone message transcription system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B answer
.PP
.SH HP-UX COMPATIBILITY
.TP 10
Level:
HP-UX/CONTRIBUTED
.TP
Origin:
Hewlett-Packard
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Answer\^
is a part of the 
.B Elm
mail system and is designed for secretaries and the like
to allow them to answer phones and|or listen to phone message
machines and quickly and easily transcribe the messages into
electronic mail.
.P
The program uses it's own alias set (usually a subset of the
system aliases, with more fields per user (ie unique first
names, unique last names, first-initial lastname, and so on)).
Note this means that you must create and then install, using
.I newalias,
a separate alias table for the account this program is to 
be run from.
.P
Interface-wise, the program is a breeze to use - type 'answer'
to start it up and then merely type a user name at the
.nf
	
	Message to:

.fi
prompt, and then enter the message, ending with a blank line.
Names can be entered as 'Firstname Lastname' and the system
will try to find a mail alias based on the first letter of the
first name plus the last name.  For example, 'Dave Taylor'
will cause the program to search for an alias 'd_taylor' in
the file (note the transliteration into lower case).   The 
program will loop until killed or quit.
.P
.I Answer
can be easily exited by typing any of 'quit', 'exit' 'done', 
or 'bye' at the 'Message to:' prompt.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "Elm Alias Users Guide", 
by Dave Taylor
.sp
.br
newalias(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), from(1L), printmail(1L)
.SH FILES
$home/.alias_hash             individual alias hash table
.br
$home/.alias_data             individual alias data table
.br
/tmp/snd*                     edit buffer for outgoing mail
