.TH AUTOREPLY 1L 
.ad b
.SH NAME
autoreply - Automatic mail reply system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoreply
.br
.B "autoreply off"
.br
.B autoreply
<
.B filename
>
.PP
.SH HP-UX COMPATIBILITY
.TP 10
Systems:
AT&T System V and Berkeley BSD
.TP
Origin:
Hewlett-Packard
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Autoreply\^
is a part of the 
.B Elm
mail system and is designed to enable users to easily set up
an automatic response to all mail they receive.  This is
typically during a vacation or some other period of time that
the user is not available to reply to mail (although some
people get enough mail that they have it permanently running
to simply send an "ack" to each message)
.PP
The system is quite easy to use...
You can type "autoreply" and be informed of your current
status in the system (on or off), or "autoreply off" will
turn your autoreplying off.
.PP
To add yourself to the system, you need merely to compose a
form response in a file somewhere, then type "autoreply <file>"
where <file> is the name of the file.
.SH "SPECIAL NOTE"
For this to function correctly, the program "arepdaemon" must
be running as a daemon in background.  This program automatically
checks all the currently enrolled users for new mail in their
mailboxes...
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "Elm Users Guide", 
by Dave Taylor
.sp
.br
mail(1), mailx(1), elm(1L)
.SH "BUGS"
Unfortunately, this program isn't too brilliant about identifying
mail that shouldn't be responded to (like mail from other
daemons, or your mother) but that's a more general problem anyway.
.sp
Also, occasionally a user will remove themselves from the
autoreply system and the system won't turn their autoreply
off.  This is a problem that hasn't been solved yet (obviously
since it's in the "bugs" section!!) and any further information
would be appreciated!
