.TH ELM 1L 
.ad b
.SH NAME
elm - an interactive mail system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B elm
[
.B \-achkKmrwz
] [
.B \-f
<
.B file
>] [
.B \-d
<
.B level
>]
.br
.B elm 
[
.B \-s 
<
.B subject
>] <
.B "list of aliases or addresses"
>
.PP
.SH HP-UX COMPATIBILITY
.TP 10
Level:
HP-UX/CONTRIBUTED
.TP
Origin:
Hewlett-Packard
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Elm\^
is a new interactive mailer program that supercedes 
.I mail
and 
.I mailx.
.PP
There are three main ways to use the \fBelm\fR mailer; 
one way to use the mailer is to specify a list of addresses on the
command line when the mailer is invoked.  This will allow sending
of a single message to the specified recipients with all the
options usually available in the \fBelm\fR system itself.
.PP
The second way, used most commonly when transmitting files and such,
is to specify the subject of the message and the recipients using
the command line and redirect a file as standard input.  For example,
the command 
.nf

	elm -s testing joe < test.c 

.fi
would mail a copy of the
file test.c to alias joe, with the subject "testing" indicated.
.PP
Otherwise, the starting options are;
.TP 1.0i
.B "-a"
Arrow - force the arrow cursor (instead of the inverse bar)
.TP
.B "-c"
Checkalias - expand the following aliases and return.
.TP
.B "-d <level>"
Debug - set specified debug level - Output to "$HOME/Elm:debug.info"
.TP
.B "-f <file>"
File - read file (specified) rather than the incoming mailbox.
.TP
.B "-h"
Help - give a list of starting options.
.TP
.B "?"
Synonymous with the "-h" option.
.TP
.B "-k"
Keypad - force knowledge of HP terminal keyboard, to allow
the use of the NEXT, PREV and HOME/SHIFT-HOME keys.
.TP
.B "-K"
Keypad + softkeys - enable use of softkeys on HP terminals only.
.TP
.B "-m"
Menu off - Use the extra lines for more message headers.
.TP
.B "-s"
Subject - specify subject for message to mail.
.TP
.B "-z"
Zero - don't enter \fBElm\fR if no mail is pending.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "Elm Users Guide", 
by Dave Taylor
.sp
.br
.I "Elm Reference Guide"
by Dave Taylor
.sp 
.br
.I "Elm Alias Users Guide"
by Dave Taylor
.sp 
.br
newalias(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), from(1L), printmail(1L)
.SH FILES
/usr/local/bin/elm-help.main      help file
.br
/usr/mail/.alias_hash             system alias hash table
.br
/usr/mail/.alias_data             system alias data table
.br
$home/.alias_hash                 user alias hash table
.br
$home/.alias_data                 user alias data table
.br
/tmp/snd*                         outgoing mail edit buffer
.br
/tmp/mbox*                        temporary mailbox
.br
$HOME/ELM:debug.info              Debug output if turned on
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Should know about keyboards/softkey terminals other than HP.  (If only 
termcap were that powerful!)
