.TH FILTER 1L
.ad b
.SH NAME
filter - filter incoming messages before adding to mailbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B filter
[-a]
[-v]
.br
.B filter
[-n]
.br
.B filter
[-r]
.br
.B filter
[-c] [-s]
.br
.B filter
[-c] [-S]
.SH HP-UX COMPATIBILITY
.TP 10
Level:
HP-UX/CONTRIBUTED
.TP
Origin:
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Filter
is a sophisticated program that allows incoming mail to be
filtered against a wide set of criteria.  The format for the
rules, located in $HOME/.filter_rules, is;
.nf
	
	if (\fIcondition\fR) then \fIaction\fR

.fi
where \fIcondition\fR can be any number of occurances of 
``\fIfield\fR \fIrelationship\fR "\fIvalue\fR"'' joined by
\fBand\fR statements and optionally prepended with a \fBnot\fR
statement.  Note that the \fBor\fR statement is not currently
supported as a logical conjunction.
.sp
\fIField\fR can be ``from'', ``subject'', ``to'',
``lines'' or ``contains'', \fIrelationship\fR can be either `='
or, for ``lines'', `<', `>', `<=', `>=', or '!=' too.
.nf

	delete
	save	 \fIfoldername\fR
	savecopy \fIfoldername\fR
	execute  \fIcommand\fR
	forward  \fIaddress\fR
	leave

.fi
The flags are;
.TP 1.0i
.B "-a"
Audible.  Output a beep with each filter action message (use with \fB-v\fR).
.TP
.B "-c"
Clear Logs.  If this flag is used, the log files will be removed after
being summarized by either "-s" or "-S" (see below).
.TP
.B "-n"
Not-Really.  Output what would happen if given message from standard
input, but don't actually do anything with it.
.TP
.B "-r"
Rules.  List the rules currently being used.
.TP
.B "-s"
Summarize.  List a summary of the messages filtered since the last summary
and zero the log file.
.TP
.B "-S"
Summarize in a more verbose format.
.TP
.B "-v"
Verbose.  Give output on standard out for each message filtered.  Useful
to have redirected to ``/dev/console'' and such.  (see \fB-a\fR too).
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories.
.SH FILES
$HOME/.filter-rules     The ruleset for the users filter
.br
$HOME/.filterlog        A log of what has been done
.br
$HOME/.filtersum        A summary of what has been done
.br
/etc/passwd             Used to get users home directory
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fIThe Elm Filter Guide\fR, by Dave Taylor.
.br
readmsg(1L), elm(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), sendmail(1,8)
.SH COMMENTS
Not real smart about pattern matching.  
