.TH NEWALIAS 1L
.ad b
.SH NAME
newalias - install new elm aliases for user and/or system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newalias
[-q]
.SH HP-UX COMPATIBILITY
.TP 10
Level:
HP-UX/CONTRIBUTED
.TP
Origin:
Hewlett-Packard
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Newalias
creates new hash and data files from a text file.  If the
program is invoked by any account other than the superuser
account, the program looks for a file 
called $home/.alias_text
and, upon finding it, creates files $home/.alias_hash and
$home/.alias_data for the 
.I Elm
program.
.PP
If the superuser invokes the program, they are given the
option of either updating their personal alias files or
the system alias files.
The question can be supressed, with the default being
the user files for the superuser, if the ``-q'' flag is
present upon invokation.
.PP
The format that the program expects is;
.sp
.nf
	alias, alias, .. : comment : address
or
	alias, alias, .. : comment : alias, alias, ...
   
The first form is for an individual user such as;

	dave, taylor : Dave Taylor : veeger!hpcnou!dat

and the second is for defining a group alias such as;

	gurus : Unix Gurus : alan, john, dave, mike, richard,
		             larry, t_richardson

.fi
.sp
Note that lines can be continued at will, blank lines are accepted
without error, and that any line starting with '#' is considered a
comment and is not processed.
.PP
The comment field is thrown away by this program, but it is 
recommended that it contain the name of the user who the alias
is for.
.PP
Finally, aliases can contain other aliases, and/or groups;
.sp
.nf
	unix : Unix people : gurus, taylor, jonboy
.fi
' onto the next page, if you please
.sp 3
.SH FILES
$home/.alias_text               alias source for user 
.br
$home/.alias_hash               alias hash table for user
.br
$home/.alias_data               alias data file for user
.br
/usr/mail/.alias_text           alias source for system
.br
/usr/mail/.alias_hash           alias hash table for system
.br
/usr/mail/.alias_data           alias data file for system
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
elm(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Newalias has a couple of descriptive error messages which
don't need to be detailed here.  It is, however, worth
noting that the
.I checkalias
program can be used to ensure that the aliases are in the
proper order and are available for the 
.I Elm
system.
