    APOLLO PAC Distribution
    June, 1986

The files in this distribution implement a Pacman-like game on apollo
nodes.  The programs probably work on SR8, but have only be tested with
SR9.  Aegis calls are used exclusively (this was my program to learn
apollo pascal and aegis).

The game is run by typing "pac" (one needs a graphics capable window
to run it).  The program runs in the window, and stops when the window
is obscured.  The screen is correctly redrawn when the window re-emerges,
and the game continues normally.

The game is similar to pacman.  One pac runs around a maze, pursued by
pointed objects called "nasties".  The pac scores points by eating the
dots in the maze.  When all the dots have been eaten, the screen is
refreshed, an additional nasty appears, and all existing nasties get
one pixel-per-tick faster.  The pac's relative to the nasties may be
controlled.  A faster pac is harder to maneuver.  Also, the tick time
may be modified to speed up or slow down the entire game.

The pac is steered using the arrow keys.  The keys have the effect of
queuing a turn in the desired direction. The turn happens when the pac
is next able to make the turn.  There can only be one turn queued;
subsequent key pushing changes the queued value.  This technique of
steering makes it possible to steer the pac very quickly with a little
practise, since the keys do not have to be pushed at the exact moment
the pac is passing a corridor to effect a turn.

The sources are written in apollo pascal, and make use of apollo-pascal
language extensions and system utilities.  In particular, all graphics
is done using GPR, the apollo graphics package.  Some of the keys used
are only on Version2 keyboards.  The next-window key is disabled because
I kept hitting it and losing the game.

The program is a good example of a simple program that uses GPR.  It is
also a good example of a simple real-time program for aegis.

- Geof Cooper
  IMAGEN Corporation
