.TH MP 1 AMPEX
.SH NAME
\fBmp\fR \- graphics filter for matrix plotters
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmp\fR [\fB\-f\fIn\fR] [\fB\-p\fIn\fR] [\fB\-\fIsize\fR] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mp
causes the named files of
.I vplot(5)
vector plotting
instructions to be plotted on the matrix plotter.  If no file names
appear the standard input is assumed.
If the standard output is redirected, the plot is written there in
.I rplot(5)
format instead of plotting it.
An invalid vector plotting instruction will produce a diagnostic
and terminate the plot at that point.
Plain ASCII characters between the vplot instructions are passed
on to the standard output, unless it is redirected, in which case
the characters go to the standard error.
.LP
The
.I vplot(5)
instructions are segmented into strips and written to an intermediate file
until a 'b' or 'e' erase instruction or an end-of-file is encountered.
Then each strip is read back in and used to set a matrix of dots (bits) that
approximate the vectors.
The resulting dot-rows (see
.I rplot(5))
are written on a temporary plot file,
and this file is then copied to the matrix plotter
.I mp(4)
when it becomes available.
An attempt is made to grab the plotter every 30 seconds for up to 60 minutes
before giving up.
If the standard output has been redirected, the plot is placed there
without plotting it and without creating a temporary file.
.LP
The matrix plotter has a physical resolution of 200 dots per inch,
with 2048 dots in a raster line, and 4096 lines
allowable in the paper-feed direction.
The standard vplot coordinate frame is oriented so the X-axis is
along the paper-feed direction, and the Y-axis is in the direction
of the raster writing head.
There are 8 standard-size pixels per dot, as the
.I vplot(5)
standard range is 16384 pixels.
Thus (0,0) is the top left corner of the
paper as it feeds out of the plotter, and (0, 16383) is the top right corner.
The maximum X-coordinate is about 41000.
.LP
The optional switch arguments are detailed below.
.IP \fB\-f\fIn\fR 7
\fBfatness\fR: All lines are fattened up by drawing
.I n
extra lines surrounding the original line(s).
.IP \fB\-p\fIn\fR 7
\fBpurge\fR: Normally the occurrance of a 'b' or 'e' erase
instruction causes the plot to be sent to the plotter before further
instructions are examined.  This minimizes the size of the temporary
.I rplot(5)
file of dot images.  This switch causes a purge only after
.I n
\&'b' or 'e' instructions to minimize wasted paper between plots.
If
.I n
is omitted, the plot is sent to the plotter only when complete.
Use this with care, as the entire plot is stored on disk in raster
dot-row form!
A good rule of thumb is 2 raster lines per disk block of 512 bytes,
or 100 disk blocks per inch of plot.
.IP \fB\-\fIsize\fR 7
\fBsize\fR: Plots may be scaled by specifying the
.I size
of the standard plot range 16384 in physical inches or centimeters.
A number alone is assumed to be in inches, as is a number followed by
an \fBi\fR.  A number followed by \fBc\fR is assumed to be in centimeters.
In the absence of the size argument, the standard plot range 16384
is mapped to 10.24 inches.
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Invalid vplot instructions cause messages and termination of the plot.
Any lower-case ASCII letter with the 0200 bit turned on is considered
to be a possible vplot instruction.  Normal ASCII characters and the
remaining characters with 0200 are passed to the standard output (or error)
file.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 12
*.vp	standard naming convention for vplot input files
/tmp	directory for intermediate and temporary files
/dev/mp	matrix plotter special file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vplotdb(1), tek(1), mp(4), rplot(5), vplot(5), stdplt(Vol. 2B)
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Clayton, Stanford University
.br
with modifications by John Nickolls, Ampex Corp.
.SH BUGS
