.TH MP 4 AMPEX
.SH NAME
mp \- Versatec 1200A Matrix Plotter
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mp
refers to the Versatec electrostatic raster dot plotter.  It accepts
a sequence of dot row images in the format described under
.I rplot(5).
The Versatec can also act like a lineprinter; see
.I lp(4).
.LP
When
.I mp
is opened for writing, enough paper is ejected to avoid the toner wash
area.  A physical dot row is 132 words long (2112 dots), and occupies
10.56 inches of paper for a resolution of 200 dots per inch.
There are 200 dot rows per vertical inch.
Enough paper is ejected when
.I mp
is closed to avoid toner wash on the plot area.
.LP
When writing, the buffer must be on a word boundary, and an integral
number of words must be transmitted.
The
.I rplot(5)
row images are buffered by
.I mp,
and may be written without regard to row size or format.
The offset on each row is inserted during this buffering operation.
If a dot row image is too long to fit entirely on the paper,
only the left-most 2112 dots are plotted.
.LP
When overlaying text and raster with the
.I rplot(5)
`T' function code,
the hardware character generator makes characters 16 dots across and
20 dots down.  A
.I minimum
of 20 dot rows must follow the `T' function and its text, and
25 dot rows will yield the normal text line spacing.
.SH USAGE
There are actually two special files for accessing the plotter:
/dev/mpf and /dev/mpr.
The first is for use with fan-fold paper, and the second for roll-type
paper.  The Versatec has a switch inside the front panel which must
be set properly when changing paper,
and a
.I link(2)
between /dev/mp and the appropriate
special file must be made.
The program
.I smp(8)
can be used to link /dev/mp properly.
.br
If the paper or toner needs changing, please have a wizard
show you how to do it the first time.
.SH FILES
/dev/mp, /dev/mpr, /dev/mpf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mp(1), lp(4), rplot(5), vplot(5), smp(8)
.SH AUTHOR
John Nickolls, Ampex Corp.
.SH BUGS
The handling of the
`T' function code is untested and probably buggy.
The `c' function is a nop because the Versatec doesn't have a
paper cutter.
.br
When using fan-fold paper, raster dot rows which fall on
the page perforations do not get toned properly by the hardware.
