.TH RPLOT 5 AMPEX
.SH NAME
\fBrplot\fR \- raster plot file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I "Raster plots"
are made up of rows of dots.
Raster or scan-line plotting devices expect a raster plot file as input,
which consists of a sequence of dot
row \fBimages\fR, each preceded by a word of header information
about the row.  The dot row images are in \fBword\fR order, with
the left-most bit in each 16-bit word representing the leftmost dot of 16 dots.
A \fB1\fR\-bit indicates the dot is intensified.
.LP
The low byte (right byte) of the row header word is a
.ul
\fBcount\fR
of the raster data \fBwords\fR in the row.
The high byte (left byte) contains the number of \fBwords\fR to
.ul
\fBoffset\fR
the row data when it is plotted.  Thus the row data words need not contain
leading or trailing zeros.  The format for one row is shown below:
.LP
 __________________________________________________________
.br
| offset : count |    word  0     |    word  1     |       |
.br
|15 ... 8:7 ... 0|................|................|  ...  |
.br
|__header_word___|____________row_dot_image________________|
.LP
A blank raster row is represented by just a header word with a count of 0.
The count may range from 0 to 254 words, and the offset from 0 to 254 words.
Various plotting devices will use as much of the raster data as is
physically possible.
.LP
If the count is 255 (not a valid count), the offset is interpreted as
an ASCII function character, and there is no raster data.
Not all devices support all the function codes given below.
.IP \&'\fBf\fR' 6
formfeed - move the paper to the top of a new form.
.IP \&'\fBh\fR' 6
home - move the paper out of the toner wash area.
.IP \&'\fBc\fR' 6
cut - cut the paper here.
.IP \&'\fBt\fR' 6
text - interpret the following bytes as ASCII characters
to be printed until a NUL character '\0' is found.  An additional byte
after the NUL will be discarded if necessary to get to an even byte boundary.
The control characters newline, return, formfeed, tab, and backspace are
all properly interpreted.  Backspace acts as it does on most CRT terminals.
If the last line of text does not contain a newline, one is forced out (i.e. it
is not possible to use several '\fBt\fR' commands to construct a line).
.IP \&'\fBT\fR' 6
simultaneous text and raster - interpret the following
bytes as ASCII characters to be printed, as with the '\fBt\fR' command.
Immediately after the NUL character(s), a series of raster data lines
must appear.  These will be inclusively-ored with the dots produced
for each character.
Enough raster lines to completely print the text line must follow, or
unpredictable results will occur.  See
.I mp(4)
for specifications.
.SH FILES
*.rp     standard naming convention for rplot files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vplot(5), mp(4), mp(1).
.SH AUTHOR
John Nickolls, Ampex Corp.
.SH BUGS
The raster header should be 2 words long to accommodate wide plotters.
