.TH TEK 1 AMPEX
.SH NAME
\fBtek\fR \- graphics filter for Tektronix 4012 terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtek\fR [\fB\-f\fIn\fR] [\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-\fIsize\fR] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tek
causes the named files of
.I vplot(5)
vector plotting
instructions to be plotted on the Tektronix 4012 terminal.  If no file names
appear the standard input is assumed.
The
.I tek
command
.I must
be issued from the Tektronix terminal, as the plot data is written
to the standard error,
.I not
the standard output.
An invalid vector plotting instruction will produce a diagnostic
and terminate the plot at that point.
Plain ASCII characters between the vplot instructions are passed
on to the standard output.
If the standard output is not redirected, these plain ASCII characters
are printed in normal lines starting from the top of the screen.
The plot may be overlapped, but it will not be otherwise affected
by the intermixed text.
.LP
The Tektronix 4012 terminal has a physical resolution of 128 dots per inch,
with 1024 dots horizontally and 781 dots vertically.
The standard vplot coordinate frame is oriented so the X-axis is
horizontal, and the Y-axis is vertical.
There are 21 standard-size pixels per dot, as the
.I vplot(5)
standard range is 16384 pixels.
Thus (0,0) is the bottom left corner of the
screen, and (21487,16383) is the upper right corner.
.LP
For the 'r' raster instruction, the smallest enclosing box is
plotted rather than the raster lines themselves.  (Note that a
raster line is parallel to the Y-axis.)
.LP
The optional switch arguments are detailed below.
.LP
.IP \fB\-f\fIn\fR 7
\fBfatness\fR: All lines are fattened up by drawing
.I n
extra lines surrounding the original line(s).
.IP \fB\-s\fR 7
\fBno stop\fR: Normally the occurrance of a 'b' or 'e' causes
.I tek
to stop before the erase and wait until a newline is typed at the keyboard.
There is no wait if the first vplot instruction is a 'b' or 'e'.
With the \-s switch, there is no wait prior to the erase.
.IP \fB\-\fIsize\fR 7
\fBsize\fR: Plots may be scaled by specifying the
.I size
of the standard plot range 16384 in physical inches or centimeters.
A number alone is assumed to be in inches, as is a number followed by
an \fBi\fR.  A number followed by \fBc\fR is assumed to be in centimeters.
In the absence of the size argument, the standard plot range 16384
is mapped to 6.0 inches.
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Invalid vplot instructions cause messages and termination of the plot.
Any lower-case ASCII letter with the 0200 bit turned on is considered
to be a possible vplot instruction.  Normal ASCII characters and the
remaining characters with 0200 are passed to the standard output
file.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 12
*.vp	standard naming convention for vplot input files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vplotdb(1), mp(1), rplot(5), vplot(5), stdplt(Vol. 2B)
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Clayton, Stanford University
.br
with modifications by John Nickolls, Ampex Corp.
.SH BUGS
