.so tmac.anx
.TH DEPEND 1 "ENEA DATA  March 1985"
.SH NAME
depend - make dependency generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B depend
.SP r file ]
.SP R rules ]
.SF 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Depend
accepts lines of the form
.IP
	file1 < file2
.P
from the standard input.
The lines represent include statements
extracted from source files.
Each file name is assumed to be in normal form,
i.e., shortest absolute path for files 
in absolute directories,
and shortest path relative to the make directory
for all other files.
.P
The
.I make
dependencies implied by these 
include statements
are output in the form
.nf
.IP
	fileX1: fileX2 fileX3 fileX4 ...
	fileY1: fileY2 fileY3 fileY4 ...
	...
.fi
.P
to the standard output.
If a dependency line is longer than 80 characters,
it is split into two lines,
so the generated dependencies can be conveniently
inspected from a crt terminal.
.P
Arguments:
.A1 r rules The
standard include suffix rules
.IP
	.o: .c .p .f
.br
	.c= .y .l .q
.br
	.h= .y
.IP
are augmented by the specified rules.
The argument is a string of rules, separated by semicolon.
.A1 R rules The
standard include suffix rules are replaced by
the specified rules.
.AR 1 Only one dependency per output line.
This is useful for postprocessing,
for example, when object file dependencies are to be
transformed into object library member dependencies.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: Kim Walden,
ENEA DATA and University of Stockholm, Sweden.
.sp 0
Revision Number:
.VL $Revision: 2.1 $
; Release Date:
.VL $Date: 1985-03-13  18:29:12 $
\h'-1'.
.sp 0
Copyright \(co 1983.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
makedep(1), makenorm(1), make(1)
.sp 0
K. Walden, "Automatic Generation of Make Dependencies",
.IR "Softw. Practice & Exper." ,
vol. 14, no. 6, June 1984.
.sp 0
.IR "Make - A Program for Maintaining Computer Programs" ,
by S. I. Feldman.
.sp 0
.IR "An Augmented Version of Make" ,
by E. G. Bradford.
