.TH DOSTP 1
.de i0
.}E
.DT
..
.de lp
.i0
.ta \\$2
.in \\$1
.ti -\\$2
..
.ad
.SH NAME
dostp  \-  manipulate DOS files on magtape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dostp
key[opt] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.hy 14
.B Dostp
reads and writes files on magtape in DOS format.
Its actions are controlled by the
.B key
argument.
The key argument is a single character,
and may be followed by one or more options.
.PP
The file names may also include options to specify DOS file group and
user numbers.
Using -g# , where # is an octal number, specifies the DOS group number.
Using -u# , where # is an octal number, specifies the DOS user number.
The options may be combined in any order to match lots of combinations.
.br
e.g. fname.tsk -g201 -g377 -u2 -g100 prog.for
.br
matches [*,*]fname.tsk [201,*]*, [377,2]*, and [100,*]prog.for
(using DEC's notation)
.PP
The key is specified by on of the following letters:
.PP
.lp +8 4
\fBt\fR	lists the names of the specified files
that appear on the tape.
If no file arguments are given,
the complete table of contents is listed.
.PP
.lp +8 4
\fBx\fR	extracts files from the tape.
The file is created in the current directory with
read and write permission.
Any carriage-returns are removed when the file is extracted.
If no file arguments are given, the entire contents of
the tape are extracted.
.PP
.lp +8 4
\fBr\fR	writes the files onto a blank tape.
If you want to add to an existing tape, use fskip(1).
The filenames should look like:
name[.ext],
where name is 6 characters or less,
and the optional extension is 3 chars or less.
On the DOS tape, the filename is encoded in Radix-50,
as a result the filename is put into upper case,
and cannot contain punctuation other that '$' and '.'.
.PP
.i0
The following characters may be used after the letter
which selects the function desired.
.PP
.lp +10 6
\fBv\fR	Normally dostp does its work silently.
The v option causes it to type the name of each
file it treats preceded by the function letter.
With the t option, v gives more information
about the tape entries than just the name.
.PP
.lp +10 6
\fBw\fR	causes dostp to wait before treating each file.
It types the indicative letter and the file name
(as with v)
and awaits the user's response.
A 'y' means yes, so the file is treated.
The default is no, and the file is not treated.
An 'x' means exit; dostp terminates immediately.
Files previously asked about have already been treated.
.PP
.i0
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt0, /dev/nrmt0
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dos(5), fskip(1), tm(4)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Hughes O'Neil
.br
Modified for V7 and stdio by Alexis Kwan (HCR for DCIEM)
.br
.SH BUGS
