.TH TCOPY 1
.ad
.SH NAME
tcopy \- absolute tape copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
tcopy [-adtc] [infile [outfile]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
tcopy makes a byte-for-byte copy or compare of one tape onto another,
or onto a series of disk files,
keeping block sizes (with tape output) the same except that odd-sized blocks are
padded with a null to the next even byte count.
It also reports to standard output the record sizes and files it finds.
.PA
If no arguments are given, the copy is from /dev/nrmt0 to /dev/nrmt1.
The flag arguments are
.sp
.in +9
.ti -4
-d  Copy all files on tape (infile) to disk. The output files will be
named "outfile.0", "outfile.1" ... "outfile.nnn".
.sp
.ti -4
-a  Append contents of "intape" to end of "outtape"
NOTE: It is assumed that "outtape" ends with two EOF marks as an
End-of-tape mark. If it ends with only one, "outtape" will wind off the end of its reel.
If tape name arguments are used, both must be present.
.ti -4
-t  Tell what is on "intape" in terms of record sizes and number of files.
The "intape" argument is optional, default "/dev/nrmt0". "outtape" is not
required and is ignored if present.
.sp
.ti -4
-c Compare what is on "intape" to outfile.  If "c" option is used
with the "d" option then the compare is made to diskfiles "outfile.0", 
"outfile.1." ...etc.  If "c" option is used with the "a" option then the
"outtape" is wound ahead to double end of file marks before the compare is
made.  This is used when the copy tape was made originally with "a" option.
If "c" option is used with "t" option then "c" option has no effect.
.sp
.ti -4
Note: The flags are mutually exclusive, except in the case of the 
"c" flag as noted above.  All tcopy operations include
the -t function. The use of the -t flag is simply to inhibit the copy
operation which is otherwise the default.
.in -5
.sp
If the copy is tape-to-tape, (no flag or -a flag), then
the "intape" and "outtape" arguments require only the single digit tape
number, but preceding characters like "mt" are legal. Only the last
character of the argument is used, and is substituted for the
digit in the corresponding "/dev/nrmt?".
If the copy is to disk (-d flag), the initial file name within the
current directory, or the full path name up to 77 characters can be used.
A dot and the file number (starting with 0) are appended as the names of
successive files.
Here is an example:
.sp
.ti +5
tcopy -a /dev/xyz3 2 > contents
.sp
will copy from /dev/nrmt3 to /dev/nrmt2, appending the contents
of /dev/nrmt3 to the pre-existing contents of /dev/nrmt2,
and will list the record sizes and file numbers in the file "contents".
.sp
As another example:
.sp
.ti +5
tcopy -d 0 myfile > tapecont
.sp
will copy files called "myfile.0", "myfile.1", "myfile.2" ... from /dev/nrmt0,
and will list the sizes in "tapecont".
.SH FILES
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self-evident.
.SH BUGS
Exits when it finds an error. Runs off end of tape if there are not two
end-of-file marks, and can be prevented only by putting the offending tape
off-line and on-line again.
.SH AUTHOR
M.M.Taylor, DCIEM, Toronto
.br
Modified for V7 by Alexis Kwan (HCR for DCIEM)
