.TH UPD 1
.SH NAME
upd \*- copy a file to numbered backup version
.SH SYNOPSIS
upd file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Upd copies a file to an incrementally numbered version.
For example, if only 'file' exists, upd will make a copy as 'file00'.
If 'file', 'file00', 'file01', ..., 'file34' exist, upd will make a copy
of 'file' as 'file35'.
.s3
The program is normally used for making successive backup copies of
a file, with consistent naming.
Upd does not control the files; they can be moved, removed, etc.
using other tools in normal ways. The user is responsible for cleaning
up unwanted versions; upd will make up to 99 versions before failing.
The dates of intermediate versions are not changed when an update occurs;
thus a long listing of the family will reveal when each was created.
.s3
It is recommended that when upd is applied to files originating at
another site (or the original system as distributed), the version numbered
00 not ever be removed.
If there are 5 versions 00 through 04, and you want to remove version 03,
it is recommended that version 04 be moved to 03 -- or the next upd will
fill the hole, before going on to version 05.
.SH FILES
file00 through file99
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
usage: upd filename
.br
upd: filename is too long to append version numbers
.br
upd: can't update, it doesn't exist.
.br
upd: there are already 99 versions, fails
.br
upd: failed to make copy
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Tuori, DCIEM Toronto Canada
.SH BUGS
Upd should perhaps leave holes in the vesion list as holes, rather
than filling them in.
