add.o add.o
addrsbr.o addrsbr.o
adios.o adios.o
admonish.o admonish.o
advertise.o advertise.o
advise.o advise.o
ambigsw.o ambigsw.o
atooi.o atooi.o
brkstring.o brkstring.o
closefds.o closefds.o
concat.o concat.o
copy.o copy.o
copyip.o copyip.o
cpydata.o cpydata.o
cpydgst.o cpydgst.o
discard.o discard.o
done.o done.o
fdcompare.o fdcompare.o
fmtcompile.o fmtcompile.o
formataddr.o formataddr.o
formatsbr.o formatsbr.o
gans.o gans.o
getans.o getans.o
getanswer.o getanswer.o
getcpy.o getcpy.o
help.o help.o
m_atoi.o m_atoi.o
m_backup.o m_backup.o
m_convert.o m_convert.o
m_delete.o m_delete.o
m_draft.o m_draft.o
m_find.o m_find.o
m_fmsg.o m_fmsg.o
m_foil.o m_foil.o
m_getdefs.o m_getdefs.o
m_getfld.o m_getfld.o
m_getfolder.o m_getfolder.o
m_gmprot.o m_gmprot.o
m_gmsg.o m_gmsg.o
m_maildir.o m_maildir.o
m_name.o m_name.o
m_readefs.o m_readefs.o
m_remsg.o m_remsg.o
m_replace.o m_replace.o
m_scratch.o m_scratch.o
m_seq.o m_seq.o
m_seqbits.o m_seqbits.o
m_seqflag.o m_seqflag.o
m_seqnew.o m_seqnew.o
m_setcur.o m_setcur.o
m_setseq.o m_setseq.o
m_setvis.o m_setvis.o
m_sync.o m_sync.o
m_tmpfil.o m_tmpfil.o
m_update.o m_update.o
m_whatnow.o m_whatnow.o
makedir.o makedir.o
path.o path.o
peekc.o peekc.o
pidstatus.o pidstatus.o
pidwait.o pidwait.o
printsw.o printsw.o
push.o push.o
putenv.o putenv.o
pwd.o pwd.o
r1bindex.o r1bindex.o
refile.o refile.o
remdir.o remdir.o
showfile.o showfile.o
smatch.o smatch.o
sprintb.o sprintb.o
ssequal.o ssequal.o
strindex.o strindex.o
trimcpy.o trimcpy.o
uleq.o uleq.o
uprf.o uprf.o
vfgets.o vfgets.o
m_readefs.o add.o
add.o adios.o
addrsbr.o adios.o
concat.o adios.o
cpydata.o adios.o
cpydgst.o adios.o
fmtcompile.o adios.o
formataddr.o adios.o
formatsbr.o adios.o
getcpy.o adios.o
m_draft.o adios.o
m_foil.o adios.o
m_getdefs.o adios.o
m_getfld.o adios.o
m_gmsg.o adios.o
m_readefs.o adios.o
m_remsg.o adios.o
m_replace.o adios.o
m_update.o adios.o
vfgets.o adios.o
addrsbr.o admonish.o
m_delete.o admonish.o
m_readefs.o admonish.o
m_replace.o admonish.o
m_sync.o admonish.o
pwd.o admonish.o
admonish.o advertise.o
advise.o advertise.o
addrsbr.o advise.o
adios.o advise.o
ambigsw.o advise.o
fmtcompile.o advise.o
m_convert.o advise.o
m_getfld.o advise.o
m_seqnew.o advise.o
makedir.o advise.o
push.o advise.o
refile.o advise.o
remdir.o advise.o
showfile.o advise.o
getans.o ambigsw.o
m_gmprot.o atooi.o
makedir.o atooi.o
formataddr.o addrsbr.o
formatsbr.o addrsbr.o
getans.o brkstring.o
m_gmsg.o brkstring.o
m_setseq.o brkstring.o
m_setvis.o brkstring.o
m_draft.o concat.o
m_getdefs.o concat.o
concat.o copy.o
m_maildir.o copy.o
adios.o done.o
m_draft.o done.o
m_whatnow.o done.o
push.o done.o
formataddr.o formatsbr.o
formatsbr.o formataddr.o
getanswer.o gans.o
m_draft.o getanswer.o
m_getdefs.o getanswer.o
addrsbr.o getcpy.o
fmtcompile.o getcpy.o
formatsbr.o getcpy.o
m_foil.o getcpy.o
m_getdefs.o getcpy.o
m_gmsg.o getcpy.o
m_maildir.o getcpy.o
m_readefs.o getcpy.o
m_replace.o getcpy.o
m_seqnew.o getcpy.o
m_setseq.o getcpy.o
m_setvis.o getcpy.o
path.o getcpy.o
trimcpy.o getcpy.o
formataddr.o addrsbr.o
formatsbr.o addrsbr.o
formataddr.o addrsbr.o
formatsbr.o addrsbr.o
fmtcompile.o addrsbr.o
formatsbr.o addrsbr.o
m_gmsg.o m_atoi.o
m_draft.o m_convert.o
m_sync.o m_delete.o
addrsbr.o m_find.o
m_convert.o m_find.o
m_draft.o m_find.o
m_getdefs.o m_find.o
m_getfolder.o m_find.o
m_gmprot.o m_find.o
m_maildir.o m_find.o
m_setseq.o m_find.o
m_setvis.o m_find.o
m_whatnow.o m_find.o
makedir.o m_find.o
m_draft.o m_fmsg.o
m_delete.o m_getdefs.o
m_find.o m_getdefs.o
m_gmsg.o m_getdefs.o
m_replace.o m_getdefs.o
m_sync.o m_getdefs.o
m_gmsg.o m_getfld.o
m_readefs.o m_getfld.o
m_maildir.o m_getfolder.o
path.o m_getfolder.o
m_draft.o m_gmsg.o
m_draft.o m_maildir.o
m_getdefs.o m_maildir.o
path.o m_maildir.o
m_gmsg.o m_maildir.o
path.o m_maildir.o
m_draft.o m_name.o
m_seq.o m_name.o
m_whatnow.o m_name.o
m_getdefs.o m_readefs.o
m_draft.o m_remsg.o
m_sync.o m_replace.o
m_sync.o m_seq.o
m_setcur.o m_seqnew.o
m_setseq.o m_seqnew.o
m_setvis.o m_seqnew.o
m_setvis.o m_seqnew.o
m_setvis.o m_seqflag.o
m_setcur.o m_seqnew.o
m_setseq.o m_seqnew.o
m_draft.o m_setcur.o
m_draft.o m_setseq.o
m_draft.o m_sync.o
m_whatnow.o m_update.o
makedir.o m_update.o
refile.o m_update.o
remdir.o m_update.o
showfile.o m_update.o
m_draft.o makedir.o
m_getdefs.o makedir.o
formataddr.o addrsbr.o
formatsbr.o addrsbr.o
m_draft.o path.o
m_getdefs.o path.o
m_maildir.o path.o
makedir.o pidstatus.o
remdir.o pidstatus.o
m_getdefs.o pidwait.o
m_update.o pidwait.o
makedir.o pidwait.o
refile.o pidwait.o
remdir.o pidwait.o
showfile.o pidwait.o
ambigsw.o printsw.o
getans.o printsw.o
help.o printsw.o
m_getdefs.o putenv.o
m_whatnow.o putenv.o
path.o pwd.o
m_backup.o r1bindex.o
m_scratch.o r1bindex.o
m_whatnow.o r1bindex.o
refile.o r1bindex.o
showfile.o r1bindex.o
gans.o smatch.o
getans.o smatch.o
addrsbr.o sprintb.o
m_convert.o ssequal.o
m_gmsg.o ssequal.o
path.o ssequal.o
printsw.o ssequal.o
addrsbr.o strindex.o
m_gmsg.o trimcpy.o
m_readefs.o trimcpy.o
addrsbr.o uleq.o
fmtcompile.o uleq.o
m_delete.o uleq.o
m_find.o uleq.o
m_replace.o uleq.o
m_whatnow.o putenv.o
addrsbr.o uprf.o
formatsbr.o uprf.o
strindex.o uprf.o
