Many people and organizations have expressed an interest in obtaining
MENUNIX for testing as a system for novices, a system for experts,
a system for learning about user interfaces, and perhaps most often,
just to play around with.  The distribution of MENUNIX was severely
limited for the following reasons.

MENUNIX was developed as an experimental system, mainly to study human
factors issues in human/computer interface design.  Mainly for that
reason, the code for MENUNIX was written quickly; development speed for
testing features was stressed over efficiency and portability.  The
original prototype of the system, with tandem file and program menus,
was up and running with about two weeks of development time.  The code
is reasonably portable, but it is terribly inefficient.  I shudder when
people suggest using it as a shell for general use.  When people ask me
for the sources, I feel embarrassed because I think they will laugh at
the source.  Many implementation decisions were made late at night and
with little thought.  More thought has gone into my subsequent work on
the Interface Arsenal, which I will be continuing at my job at Bell
Labs.  I will probably not be able to talk about this work, so don't
ask.

I do not want to have to deal with questions about the availability of
MENUNIX.  It is time for me to pass away MENUNIX to any and all who
want to receive it.  Be warned that it is not supported software.  It
is a system created to STUDY user interfaces, not create them.  While
it is worth study, it is not of production quality.  I do not want to
have to deal with questions about the the coding (data structures and
algorithms) of MENUNIX.  Many improvements could be made in those
areas.  Please do not send me complaints about bugs in MENUNIX; I
probably know about them and don't care to fix them.  If it's a great
idea, only then suggest a new feature.  I am always happy to discuss
the aspects that motivated the design and implementation: human
factors.

My address at Bell is:
	Gary Perlman
	Bell Labs 5D-105
	600 Mountain Ave.
	Murray Hill, NJ 07974
	(201) 582-3624
	mhb5b!gsp (which is connected to ucbvax, among others)

Disclaimer:  MENUNIX is NOT a product nor supported by Bell Labs.
