Instructions for using source code and diffs for vt100 emulator.

1. Make changes from context diffs file diffs.src to the files in YOUR
source library for libsuntool. It might be best to copy the entire
library source to another directory since this distribution disables
the ANSI mode emulator in the original libsuntool.

2. Add the new source files to this directory: vt100fonts.c,
vt100keys.c ttyvt100.c ttyvt100.h. 

3. Run make (the new Makefile which substitutes ttyvt100.c for
ttyansi.c etc.).

4. Make this new libsuntool.a the nlibsuntool.a from the binary
distribution; i.e., put it where you have put ../libdir from the
distribution.

5. Run make from the distribution main directory and remake vt100tool
with this new library.

NOTE: there may be differences in the contexts for the diffs.src diffs
because of variations of the point where I started building this
program. SMI has made many changes to this library over the past year.

MORE NOTES: this is a modification to SMI proprietary code. Needless
to say, it should not be given to anyone who does not have a source
license. The ttyvt100.[ch] files are branched from ttyansi.[ch] but
have been changed so completely that only a few fragments of the
originals remain and most of this is not used; e.g. old variable
definitions no longer needed, etc. which I have not taken the time to
remove.

You are free to change, improve and redistribute the package but only
in the same way as I did: as binary changes where proprietary code is
involved. I would appreciate diffs via mail where improvements or new
ports are made so I can keep the SCCS files up to date. Thanks and
enjoy.



Ed Lafferty

----------------------------------->>
External:                           Internal Mail addresses at MITRE: 

<ell@mitre-bedford.ARPA>	    <ell@mbunix>                      
<ell@linus.UUCP>		    <ell@linus>                       
				    <ell@mbvm>                        
				                                      



