This program is a ``posthumous'' publication of softare Chris Lewis
posted to the net.  I felt it was worthwhile, and decided to clean up
the documentation a bit and publish it in mod.sources.  This README,
the manpage, and the sample control file come from Chris's original
posting, combined with additional information I gleaned from the source.
Read carefully -- there might be errors in the documentation.
		/Rich $alz,
		 Moderator of mod.sources


News admins!  Sick of having millions of cron entries, differing
[cs7]sendbatch scripts, and blown out spool areas with your downstream
feeds?  Well, have I got something for you!

The "batcher" program which works with 2.10.2 and 2.10.3 news, solves
all of these problems (if your're lucky!).  You install it in
/usr/lib/news along with a batch control file, "batcher.ctrl".  The
control file contains one line per down-stream site which describes how
to send news to that site.

To install, read these next few paragraphs and edit the source as
appropriate.
   +Batching instructions for all downstream sites is contained in one
    file, instead of having to make customized *sendbatches (e.g.,
    differing bits in compress, different grades, different batch
    sizes).

   +You can speicfy the batch size for each site, tuning for various
    link qualities.

   +If you have 4.3BSD UUCP, you can completely eliminate the chance
    of filling up your spool area.  The control file lets you specify
    the number of bytes allowable in the UUCP queue for each system;
    the real batching is not invoked for a site until they make contact
    and bring the queue size back down below the limit.

    This is done by 'popen("uuq -l -s<sitename>", "r")' to find out the
    size of the queue for the site.  Non-4.3 sites can probably write
    their own routine to scan UUCP "C." files to figure out how big the
    queue is for a specific system.  If you don't have this uuq command,
    #undef UUQ in the source.

   +If you are running on a 4.xBSD system, batcher will also not invoke
    the real batching software if there is less than 5Mb free on the
    UUCP spool file system.  This is done by doing "df /usr/spool/uucp"
    which I believe works only on 4.[23]BSD systems.  If you can't do
    this, #undef DFABLE in the source.  It should be fairly easy to
    kludge something up for other sites, however.

Next, modify your news sys file so that each system you want to control
this way has batching turned on:
	mnetor:....:F:/usr/spool/batch/mnetor
Add entries for those sites in /usr/lib/news/batcher.ctrl.  Information
on the control file is given in the manpage, and in the sample file
distributed.

Finally, via cron, run batcher setuid news with either the name of a
site to feed, or a "class" (which'll run all sites with that class).

This software has made an incredible difference on this site.  We give
full feeds to 7 sites, plus smaller ones to about another ten.  Until
this was installed, we had to disable batching to one site or another
every second day.  And we blew spool areas on weekends.  We haven't had
to touch *anything* since this was installed.  Even when sites have
been unreachable for weeks on end.

Chris Lewis
    formerly at mnetor!clewis,
    might now be reachable at utzoo!spectrix!clewis
