.TH CPM 1 local
.SH NAME
cpm \- cpm floppy diskette interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpm
-drive [ command [ -options ] filename filename ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cpm
maintains a CP/M file system on a floppy disk.
Its main use is to transfer data between a CP/M system and UNIX.
Also implemented are various utility features to
list a CP/M directory,
remove CP/M files,
or change the name of a CP/M file.
.PP
.I Drive
is a digit which determines which drive will be used.
.TP
.B 0
Use the left hand drive (/dev/rx0c)
.TP
.B 1
Use the right hand drive (/dev/rx1c)
.PP
If
.I command
is given,
cpm will execute that command and return to the shell.
Otherwise,
cpm will repeatedly issue prompts to your terminal
and accept commands from the standard input.
.PP
.I Command
can be from the following list:
.TP
cpu [ -b ] Cfile [ Ufile ]
Copy the CP/M file ``Cfile'' to the UNIX file ``Ufile.''
If Ufile does not exist it will be created.
If Ufile did exist it will be overlayed.
If Ufile is not given the output will appear on the standard output
(generally your terminal)
The files are assumed to be ASCII source files and conversions will
take place during the transfer unless the -b flag is used.
.TP
cpc [ -b ] [ Ufile ] Cfile
Copy the UNIX file ``Ufile'' to the CP/M file ``Cfile.''
If Cfile does not exist it will be created.
If Cfile did exist it will be overlayed.
If Ufile is not given the input will be taken from the standard input
(generally your terminal)
The files are assumed to be ASCII source files and conversions will
take place during the transfer unless the -b flag is used.
.TP
ls [-l]
Just like UNIX,
this command will give a directory listing of the diskette.
If the -l flag is used,
the size of each file is given in the form K.S,
where K is full 1K groups used,
and S is partial groups (in sectors).
Also, a 1 line summary will be given at the end if the -l flag is used.
.TP
mv oldname newname
Just like UNIX,
this command will change the name of a file on the CP/M diskette.
If there is already a file called newname,
it will be overlayed.
.TP
rm [ -a ] [ file1 [ file2 ] ... ]
Just like UNIX,
the list of file names will be removed from the diskette.
If the -a option is used and no file names are given,
this command will remove
.I all
of the files on the disk.
.TP
help
This command will print a short reminder of the possible commands
to use while running the program.
.TP
: [ optional comment ]
Like the shell,
a line beginning with a colon is considered a comment.
This is usefull for documenting procedure files.
.TP
quit or q (or control D from a terminal)
This is the proper way to end the program when you are using it
interactively.
.TP
! prog
Just like ed or talk,
this command allows you to escape to Unix and execute
.I prog.
.SH FILES
none
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
many - are all meant to be self explanitory
.SH BUGS
If you ``control C'' in the middle of a transfer,
there is no telling what condition your diskette will be left in.
