
'\"	priv.8b -- man page for the priv program
.TH PRIV 8B 
'\"	last edit: 04/25/85  Eric G. Heilman
.SH NAME

priv - allows the use of Unix commands with the possibility
       of emulating different user ids.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B priv
[
.B \-d
] 
[
.B \-u 
user_name 
] 
Unix command [ command arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I priv\^
allows the use of any Unix command or program which appears
in the priv.conf file table. The commands may be run under a 
different user id.
.br

Options include :
.br

.B \-u user_name :
.br

This option allows the invoker to execute certain
commands as if he/she were user_name.
.br

.B \-d : 
.br

The debug option displays the effective
id, including the id number and name.
.SH DEFINITIONS

.I *\^
\-\- When used in conjunction with a user name, means original 
login name.
.SH DISCUSSION

The 
.I priv.conf \^
file table defines the usable Unix commands and
programs. When 
.I priv \^
is invoked, this table is examined. If the requested 
command or program appears in the table, then it may be
executed.

A typical 
.I priv.conf \^
record is of the 
form :

WS program_name WS path WS user_ids

WS = White Space ( blanks, tabs ).

program_name = any program (ie. this entry allows priv 
	       to run the program).

path = the full path name ( must begin with "/" )

user_ids = can be of three different types:

1) For commands with multiple arguments that require
   a different user id for each argument, for example:

		date /bin/date 0:* 1:root

   If the program date is run with one argument, then the 
   invoker's effective user id would become root, allowing
   the invoker to change the date.  If date is run without 
   any arguments, then the user id is "*".  The "*" 
   represents the invoker's user id.

2) For commands that are to run as a single user no matter
   the number of targets, for example:

		restore /bin/restore *

   The program restore will default to the invoker's user id.

		restore /bin/restore @

   The "@" will force the invoker to use the "-u" option to 
   declare the uid.  

3) For commands with a default user id list and possible
   "-u" option use, for example:

		restore /bin/date * @

   or

		date /bin/date 0:* 1:root @

  ** The options stated in the third example **
  ** are not presently in the priv.conf file **

.SH WARNING(S)
You must put all "-" options before the command to be executed. All
arguments for the desired command must appear after the command and
in a sequence that the command accepts.
.SH RESTRICTIONS

The use of this command is restricted to the 
.I operator\^
system group.
.SH EXAMPLE(S)

Command lines :

1) priv -u user_name restore [ args ]

  -- Restores a directory.
     Done as user_name.

2) priv date

  -- Shows the current date.
     Done as invoker.

3) priv date 8504251030.05

  -- Resets the date to April 25, 1985 10:30.05 
     Done as root.

.SH FILES

/etc/priv.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"

The manual page entry for the invoked command.
.SH AUTHOR(S)

Eric Heilman, BRL/SECAD-APB
.SH BUGS

None known, yet...
