.TH GRAPHICS 1 "1 January 1988" "InterViews" "InterViews Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
graphics \- persistent structured graphics demo program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgraphics\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIGraphics\fP is a simple program that demonstrates the use of persistent
structured graphics provided by InterViews.
Studying the source can help explain some of the specific details
of the Graphic and Persistent classes.
.PP
\fIGraphics\fP creates a view made up of a GraphicBlock
framed by a banner and pair of scrollers.
The GraphicBlock contains a picture which in turn contains a number of
graphic objects.
The user can move a graphic object by clicking on it and
dragging it to a new location.
The scrollers let the user pan the picture when it does not fit entirely in
the GraphicBlock.
.PP
The graphic objects in \fIgraphics\fP are persistent.  When the program is
initially run, it creates the graphic objects, initializes them, and inserts
them into the root RefList maintained by the object manager.  
The object manager is explicitly deleted when the
program is exited, causing all
persistent objects to be written to disk.  The object manager creates
two files, \fIgraphics.map\fP and \fIgraphics.sto\fP, that store the
persistent information.
When the program is
executed subsequently, the objects are read from disk rather than created
from scratch.  Thus, Graphics that have been moved will remain where they were 
placed.
.SH SEE ALSO
Banner(3I), Frame(3I), Graphic(3I), GraphicBlock(3I), Persistent(3I),
Scroller(3I)
