.TH IDRAW 1 "27 April 1987" "InterViews" "InterViews Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
idraw \- drawing editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBidraw\fP [ \fB\-sl\fP ] [ \fIfile\fP ] [ \fBsize=\fP\fIx,y\fP ]
[ \fBpos=\fP\fIx,y\fP ] [ \fB\-pr\fP \fIfile\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIIdraw\fP is an object-oriented drawing editor similar in functionality
to MacDraw.  Drawings are composed interactively
using a mouse to sketch and manipulate objects such as lines, circles
and polygons.  \fIIdraw\fP provides a set of tools for object creation
and interactive modification, and a set of pull-down menus containing
various commands.  Tools and menu commands may be selected either by
pointing and clicking with the mouse or by entering corresponding
keyboard codes.  Finished drawings can be output in PostScript form
for printing.
.PP
The command line options and their meanings are:
.TP 8
\fIfile\fP
Specify a file containing a drawing to be opened when the view is
created.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Specify a small drawing view, corresponding to a 50%-reduced 8.5x11
drawing area.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP
Specify a large drawing view, corresponding to a full-size 8.5x11
drawing area.
.TP
\fBsize=\fIx,y\fP
Set the width of \fIidraw\fP to \fIx\fP and the height to \fIy\fP.  If
none of \fB\-s\fP, \fB\-l\fP, or \fBsize\fP are present, the user must
specify the size with the mouse.
.TP
\fBpos=\fIx,y\fP
Set the position of the top left corner of \fIidraw\fP to (\fIx,y\fP).
If this argument is not present, the user must specify the location
with the mouse.  Size defaults to the \fB\-s\fP option.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIfile\fP
Create \fIfile.ps\fP, a PostScript version of the drawing in the file
specified, without creating a view of \fIidraw\fP. Portrait
orientation is used.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIfile\fP
Same as \fB\-p\fP, except landscape orientation is used.
.PP
The drawing view is divided into five areas.  Along the left edge are
the \fIdrawing tools\fP which are used to control the function of the
mouse cursor.  Just below the banner and to the right of the drawing
tools are the pull-down \fIcommand menus\fP.  To the right and below
the drawing area are \fIscroll bars\fP for panning the drawing
vertically and horizontally.  At the upper left corner are the
\fIcurrent line style\fP and \fIcurrent shade\fP indicators.  The
remainder of the view is taken up by the \fIdrawing area\fP, in which
objects are drawn and manipulated.
.PP
\fBDrawing Tools\fP
.PP
There are two types of tools.  The \fIobject tools\fP let you create a
particular object with the mouse, while the \fIoperation tools\fP let
you manipulate existing objects.  The object tools are \fBText\fP,
\fBPerpendicular Line\fP, \fBLine\fP, \fBCircle\fP, \fBEllipse\fP,
\fBRectangle\fP, \fBPolygon\fP, \fBOpen Spline\fP, and \fBClosed
Spline\fP.  The operation tools are \fBSelect\fP, \fBMove\fP,
\fBScale\fP, \fBStretch\fP, \fBRotate\fP, and \fBMagnify\fP.
.PP
To draw an object, first select the desired object tool either by
clicking on it or by typing the character shown at the lower right of
the tool.  The action associated with a tool is initiated by pressing
the left mouse button in the drawing area, unless otherwise noted.
The size and/or shape of the object varies as the mouse is moved about
with the left button depressed (known as \fIdragging\fP the mouse),
providing immediate feedback as to how the object would appear if you
released the button.  After the button is released, the object is
automatically \*(lqselected\*(rq; this is indicated by a set of eight
small rectangles (\fIhandles\fP) surrounding the object.  In general,
operation tools and the functions in the command menus affect selected
objects. To unselect all objects at once, either press the middle
mouse button or click on the currently selected tool.
.TP
\fBSelect\fP
selects (unselects) an unselected (selected) object.  A group of
objects may be selected (unselected) at once by clicking outside the
group and dragging a rectangle around them.  Only those objects that
lie \fIcompletely\fP within the rectangle will be selected
(unselected) when the button is released.  \fIShortcut:\fP clicking
the right mouse button in the drawing area momentarily engages the
select tool, allowing you to select objects in the same manner.  The
original tool is automatically re-selected when the right button is
released.
.TP
\fBMove\fP
moves objects from one spot to another.
.TP
\fBScale\fP
scales objects about their centers.
.TP
\fBStretch\fP
stretches objects vertically and/or horizontally.  Dragging on a
corner stretches objects independently in \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP about
the opposing corner.  Dragging on a horizontal (vertical) edge
stretches objects in \fIy\fP (\fIx\fP) about the opposing edge.
.TP
\fBRotate\fP
rotates objects about their centers.  Rotation is based on the angle
between two radii: the one defined by the original clicking point, and
the one defined by the current dragging point.
.TP
\fBMagnify\fP
magnifies a part of the drawing area specified by dragging a
rectangle.
.TP
\fBText\fP
creates a text object.  Click on where you want text to start, then
type.  When the text has been entered, click again within the drawing
area to create another text object, or click on any tool or pull down
a menu to do something else.
.TP
\fBPerpendicular Line\fP, \fBLine\fP
creates a (perpendicular) line.  Click on starting point, release on
endpoint.
.TP
\fBCircle\fP
creates a circle.  Click on center, drag to vary radius.
.TP
\fBEllipse\fP
creates an ellipse.  Click on center, drag to vary major and minor
axes.
.TP
\fBRectangle\fP
creates a rectangle.  Click on corner, release on opposing corner.
.TP
\fBPolygon\fP, \fBOpen Spline\fP, \fBClosed Spline\fP
create a polygon/open spline/closed spline.  Specify vertices/control
points by clicking on each.  Terminate by clicking middle button on
mouse.
.SH "Command Menus"
Command menus contain operations that affect selected objects, the entire
drawing, or \fIidraw\fP itself.  The eight menus are
\fBFile\fP, \fBEdit\fP, \fBStructure\fP, \fBFont\fP,
\fBLine\fP, \fBShade\fP, \fBAlign\fP, and \fBOption\fP.
Commands can be chosen either by mouse or the
keyboard code that appears to the right of the command entry.  Most but
not all commands have keyboard equivalents.
.PP
\fBFile\fP contains commands to create a \fBNew\fP drawing,
\fBRevert\fP to the most recently saved drawing, \fBOpen...\fP an
existing drawing, \fBSave\fP (and \fPPrint\fP) the current drawing,
change the current working \fBDirectory...\fP, or \fBQuit\fP
\fIidraw\fP.  \fBNew\fP destroys the existing drawing, replacing it
with a blank page.  \fBRevert\fP re-opens the current drawing,
destroying the changes made since the last \fBSave\fP.  \fBOpen...\fP
prompts you for the name of the file to be read.  (In general,
ellipses indicate that additional input is required for a command.)
\fBSave As...\fP allows you to specify the name of the file in which
the drawing will be saved.  \fBSave\fP saves a copy of the drawing in
the file last specified.  \fBPrint\fP produces a PostScript file
having the same name as the drawing with a \fI.ps\fP suffix added.
The bold rectangular outline (called the \fIpage boundary\fP)
appearing in the drawing area indicates the portion of the drawing
that will appear in the printed copy.  \fBPrint\fP does an implicit
\fBSave\fP.
.PP
\fBEdit\fP contains a collection of commands that manipulate objects
in various ways:
.TP
\fBUndo\fP
undoes the last drawing-modifying operation.  If the last operation
was \fBUndo\fP, then the operation preceding it is redone.
.TP
\fBCut\fP
removes the selected objects from the drawing and places them in a
temporary area (called the \fIclipboard\fP) for later retrieval.  The
clipboard is accessible across drawing views invoked from the same
directory.
.TP
\fBCopy\fP
copies the selected objects into the clipboard.
.TP
\fBPaste\fP
places a copy of the contents of the clipboard into the drawing.
Together, \fBCut\fP, \fBCopy\fP, and \fBPaste\fP provide a mechanism
for transferring drawing objects between multiple instantiations of
\fIidraw\fP simply by cutting objects out of one drawing view and
pasting them into another.
.TP
\fBDuplicate\fP
creates copies of the selected objects and adds them to the drawing.
.TP
\fBDelete\fP
destroys the selected objects.
.TP
\fBSelect All\fP
selects all objects in a drawing.
.TP
\fBFlip Horizontal\fP, \fBFlip Vertical\fP
alter the selected objects to create mirror images along the
horizontal and vertical axes, respectively.
.TP
\fB90 Clockwise\fP, \fB90 CounterCW\fP
rotate the selected objects 90 degrees clockwise and counterclockwise,
respectively.
.TP
\fBPrecise Move...\fP, \fBPrecise Scale...\fP, \fBPrecise Rotate...\fP
allow you to move, scale, and rotate objects by an exact amount by
typing the appropriate value(s) in response to a prompt in a dialog
box.  The values may be integer or real.  Movement is in units of
pixels, scaling values represent magnification along the axes, and
rotation is in degrees.
.PP
The \fBStructure\fP menu contains operations that modify the structure of the
drawing, that is, the order in which objects are drawn.
.TP
\fBGroup\fP
merges the selected objects into a single object, allowing hierarchies of
objects to be built.
.TP
\fBUngroup\fP
reverses a single \fBGroup\fP operation.  It effectively dissolves the top
node of an object's hierarchy.
.TP
\fBShow Structure\fP
behaves just like \fBUngroup\fP, except objects revert back to their
original grouping when they are unselected.  Also, if a polygon
or spline object is selected when \fBShow Structure\fP is invoked, the
vertices
or control points are highlighted.  They may be moved about using the
\fBMove\fP tool.
.TP
\fBBring To Front\fP
restructures the drawing so that selected objects are drawn on top of (after)
the others.
.TP
\fBSend To Back\fP
restructures the drawing so that selected objects are drawn behind (before)
others.
.PP
The \fBFont\fP menu contains a collection of fonts in which text objects may
appear.  When a font is chosen from the \fBFont\fP menu, all selected text
objects are changed to that font, and it is used for text objects
defined thereafter.
.PP
The \fBLine\fP menu lets you set the type of line style for objects.  If
\fBNone\fP is selected, then line objects will not appear when drawn, and
other objects will not have an outline.  If an arrowhead is selected, then
line objects and open splines will have arrowheads added to their starting
point, ending point, or both.  The current line style is reflected in the
line style indicator at the upper left of the drawing view.
.PP
The \fBShade\fP menu lets you set the type of shade for filled objects and
arrowheads.  Any selected objects
will have their shade changed to the chosen one.  Text will appear in white
if the white shade is specified; otherwise, it will appear in black.
.PP
The \fBAlign\fP menu contains a set of operations for aligning objects with
other objects.  The first object selected remains fixed, while others are
moved according to the type of alignment chosen.  The objects are moved in
the order in which they were selected.  For example, the \fBLeft Sides\fP
alignment command moves objects horizontally so that their left sides line
up.  \fBBottom to Top\fP moves objects vertically so that the bottom of a
given object abuts with the top of the one preceding it.  \fBAlign
to Grid\fP moves \fIall\fP selected objects so that the lower left-hand
corner of each falls on a point in an imaginary grid of points spaced at
approximately one eighth inch intervals.
.PP
The \fBOption\fP menu contains the following commands:
.TP
\fBReduce\fP, \fBEnlarge\fP
reduce and enlarge the drawing by a factor of two.  Note that the
actual size of the drawing is not changed, only the magnification at
which you work on it.
.TP
\fBNormal Size\fP
displays the drawing at actual size.
.TP
\fBReduce to Fit\fP
reduces the size of the drawing so that it can fit entirely in the
drawing area.
.TP
\fBCenter Page\fP
moves the drawing so that the center of the page boundary coincides
with the center of the drawing area.
.TP
\fBGrid on/off\fP
toggles the \fIdrawing grid\fP on and off.  When on, the drawing grid
constrains activity within the drawing area to the grid of points used
for \fBAlign to Grid\fP.  The vertices and control points of objects
created while the grid is on are forced to fall on grid points.
Similarly, the effects of operation tools are also constrained by the
grid.
.TP
\fBOrientation\fP
orients the page boundary to reflect either portrait or landscape
printing.
.TP
\fBRedraw on/off\fP
allows you to turn automatic updating on and off.  By default, the
drawing is updated after each modification; this may be time consuming
when editing complicated objects.  When redraw is turned off, only
objects' selection handles are redrawn in their proper positions.
Objects themselves are unchanged in appearance, though operations
performed on them are carried out internally.  The drawing is updated
when redraw is turned on again.
.TP
\fBCaching on/off\fP
enables/disables bitmap caching of areas obscured by pull-down menus.
Caching is enabled by default.  Turning caching off slows the operation of
menus; the purpose in doing so is to avoid allocating and deallocating bitmaps
on a frequent basis, a practice known to tickle window server bugs on some
implementations.
.SH "Scroll Bars"
Each scroll bar consists of three parts: the \fIslider\fP, the shaded
rectangle in the middle; the \fIpage buttons\fP, the small rectangles
at either end of the scroll bar that contain triangular arrows; and
the \fIpaging area\fP, the area surrounding the slider.  The position
and size of the slider in the paging area reflects the position and
size of the drawing area relative to the entire page.  Dragging the
slider to a new position moves the drawing area analogously to view
another part of the drawing.  Clicking in the paging area centers the
slider at that point, thereby moving the drawing area.  Clicking on
one of the page buttons moves the slider one full length towards the
paging button, allowing you to move across the drawing a drawing
area's worth at a time.
.SH FILES
\&./.clipboard		clipboard for copy, cut, and paste
.SH BUGS
Changing the line style has no effect
on selected objects; a change in the line style \fIshould\fP change
selected objects' line styles accordingly.
.PP
If an object is created with the \fBNone\fP shade in
effect, its shade cannot be changed.  Objects whose shades are not
\fBNone\fP cannot be changed to \fBNone\fP later.
.PP
Text objects cannot be rotated or stretched
horizontally.  They may be scaled, but the results are not shown
correctly on the screen; the printed version is correct, however.
Fonts will not be scaled properly on the screen when the drawing is
\fBReduce\fPd or \fBEnlarge\fPd.  Also, there will be slight
discrepancies between the way text appears on the screen with respect
to other objects and how it comes out in printed form.  Proportional
fonts in particular may take up more horizontal space per character on
the screen than on paper.
.PP
Arrow heads are not moved
correctly in response to control point movement on open splines that
have arrow heads.
