.TH SQUARES 1 "10 February 1988" "InterViews" "InterViews Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
squares \- InterViews demo program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsquares\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fISquares\fP is a simple program that demonstrates many of
the features of InterViews.
Running this program gives a feel for the capabilities
of InterViews as well as the default styles for interactive objects.
Studying the source can help explain some of the specific details
of the InterViews classes.
.PP
Initially, \fIsquares\fP creates a view of a list of squares that is
framed by a banner and pair of scrollers.
The frame is a solid pattern when the program is the focus of input and
a gray pattern otherwise.
The scrollers can be used to pan the list of squares.
.PP
Pressing the right button pops up a menu that can be used
to add a square, zoom in, zoom out,
create a new view, customize a view's frame, or exit the program.
If several views are created,
each can be sized, scrolled, and zoomed independently.
Adding a new square will place the square in the appropriate place
in all the views.
.PP
When the ``view\ setup'' menu item is selected,
a dialog box is created for customizing the view's frame.
If the ``accept'' button is pressed, then the frame is reconstructed
with the desired characteristics.
.PP
The \fIsquares\fP implementation consists of a main program file (``main.c'')
and a pair of files for each of the four classes:
Squares, a list of varying size squares,
SquaresView, the display of the squares,
SquaresFrame, the frame around a view with banner and scrollers, and
SquaresMetaView, the dialog box for customizing a view's frame.
A class is defined in a header file (e.g., ``view.h'') and
the methods are implemented in a corresponding .c file (``view.c'').
.PP
The squares object contains a list of its views so
all the views can be updated if a new square is added.
The view displays the squares according to some perspective
(scroll and zoom parameters).
The frame handles input, adding a square to its view's squares object,
changing the view's perspective, or creating a view for customizing
the frame (called a ``metaview'').
The metaview is a frame around a box containing a number of buttons
with glue used to provide variable-width spacing between the buttons.
To see the glue stretch or shrink, try resizing a metaview.
.PP
The main program creates a Squares object, view, and frame and
inserts the frame in the world.
It then simply loops reading events and passing them to the target object
(usually the frame).
.SH SEE ALSO
Banner(3I), Button(3I), Box(3I), Frame(3I), Glue(3I), Menu(3I),
Scene(2I), Scroller(3I)
