
.tr ~ 
.TH FONTBANNER 6 "2 January 1986"
.UC
.SH NAME
fontbanner \- print banners using vfonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fontbanner
[
.BI \-vh
] [
.BI \-12
] [
.BI \-f
font ] [ strings ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fontbanner
prints banners on the standard output using the UNIX fonts to format characters.
.PP
The 
.BI "-f font"
option select the font to use in printing the following strings.
.br
More than one font specification can appear on a command line.
.br
If a font is not specified bocklin.14 is used.
.PP
The
.BI "-v"
and
.BI "-h"
options select from vertical or horizontal banner printing
(horizontal is default).
.PP
The
.BI "-1"
or
.BI "-2"
options select one of two styles for printing, style 1 is more compact,
style 2 is more accurate (style 1 is default).
.PP
The
.BI "-d dir"
option select an alternate directory to search for font files
(default is /usr/lib/vfont).
.PP
If you don't supply strings to print on the command line,
fontbanner prompts for a
.I font
and a
.I message 
till you give an
.I eof.
.br
When used in this way the standard output can  still be redirected to 
a file because every message from fontbanner is sent to the standard error.
.br
When you are asked for a font name you can precede it with any of the
options seen before. One more option is supplied to 
list the available font files:
.BI "-l [fontpattern]"
, it execs "ls pattern" in /usr/lib/vfont
(if the pattern does not begin with '/').
.sp
.PP
Some font define special symbols corresponding to characters 
from '\\000' to '\\037' (<ctrl>@~to~<ctrl>_). Those characters can
be specified with '^' followed by the corresponding printable character
from '\\100' to '\\137' ('@'~to~'_') (e.g.~^@~means~'\\000', ^A~means~'\\001',~etc.).
The special meaning of '^' can be prevented by precceding it by a '\\'.
.PP
The output should be printed on a hard-copy device, up to 132 columns wide,
with no breaks between the pages. The volume is enough that you want
a printer or a fast hardcopy terminal, but if you are patient, a
decwriter or other 300 baud terminal will do.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/vfont           	 unix fonts
.br
Berkeley Font Catalog
.SH SEE ALSO
banner(6), vfont(5), vfontinfo(1)
.SH AUTHOR
