.TH GRAPHIC 3I "7 December 1987" "InterViews" "InterViews Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
Graphic \- persistent structured graphics objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <InterViews/graphic.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/lines.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/ellipses.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/polygons.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/splines.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/label.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/picture.h>
.br
.B #include <InterViews/Graphic/instance.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Graphic
is the base class for a set of classes that provide persistent structured
graphics.  Prederived classes include simple
graphical objects (\fBPoint, Ellipse, Spline, Label,\fP etc.), a composite
object (\fBPicture\fP), and an object that is a variation on another object
(\fBInstance\fP).  Each graphic can be manipulated and transformed
independently of others.  Functions are provided for computing
the graphic's bounding
box and whether or not it intersects a given point or rectangle.  Graphics
are persistent in that each has a predefined representation that can be
automatically written to and read from
disk.  The \fBGraphic\fP class is derived from
\fBPersistent\fP, described in Persistent(3I), which provides this
functionality in a general persistent object class.
Graphics use persistent paint
objects that are analogous to the paint objects used by painters.
Persistent paint objects are defined in <InterViews/Graphic/ppaint.h>.

This manual page contains all you
need to know to use \fBGraphic\fP and derived classes without the
persistence feature.  If persistent graphics are required, then you should
read Persistent(3I).
.PP
.SH STATE OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "Graphic(Graphic* = nil)"
Create a new graphic having a copy of the given graphic's state.  
All state values are set to nil (undefined) by default.
.TP
.B "virtual Graphic* Copy()"
Returns an exact duplicate of the graphic.  This
function should be redefined in user-derived graphic classes to
guarantee these semantics.
.TP
.B "void SetBrush(PBrush*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "PBrush* GetBrush()"
Set or return the graphic's brush.
.TP
.B "void SetColors(PColor* fg, PColor* bg)"
.ns
.TP
.B "PColor* GetFgColor()"
.ns
.TP
.B "PColor* GetBgColor()"
Set or return the graphic's colors.
.TP
.B "void SetFont(PFont*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "PFont* GetFont()"
Set or return the graphic's label font.
.TP
.B "void SetPattern(PPattern*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "PPattern* GetPattern()"
.ns
.TP
.B "void FillBg(boolean mode)"
.ns
.TP
.B "boolean BgFilled()"
Set or return the graphic's fill pattern and mode.
If the mode is \fItrue\fP,
fill operations will set pixels corresponding
to 1's in the current fill pattern to the foreground color and
pixels corresponding to 0's to the background color.
If \fIfalse\fP, then only foreground pixels will be set.
The default mode is \fItrue\fP.
.TP
.B "Graphic* Parent()"
.ns
.TP
.B "virtual boolean HasChildren()"
Parent returns the graphic's parent, if any.  HasChildren returns \fIfalse\fP
by default; it should be redefined if a subclass should provide this
information.
.TP
.B "void SetOrigin(int x0, int y0)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void GetOrigin(int& x0, int& y0)"
Set or return the origin by which all coordinates are offset.
.TP
.B "void SetTag(Ref)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Ref GetTag()"
Set or return a tag associated with the graphic.
.TP
.B "virtual Graphic& operator = (Graphic&)"
The assignment operator is overloaded to copy the passed graphic's graphic
state into this object's.
.TP
.B "void Translate(float dx, float dy)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Rotate(float angle, float cx = 0.0, float cy = 0.0)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Scale(float x, float y, float cx = 0.0, float cy = 0.0)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void SetTransformer(Transformer*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Transformer* GetTransformer()"
.ns
.TP
.B "void TotalTransformation(Transformer&)"
Coordinates passed to drawing operations are transformed
according to the current origin, translation (cumulative),
rotation, and scale factor.  Optionally, scaling and rotation can be performed 
relative to a point (\fIcx\fP, \fIcy\fP).
Internally, a transformation matrix is stored that
can be directly set and accessed using
SetTransformer and GetTransformer.
The default transformer is nil, meaning no transformations are performed.
TotalTransformation postmultiplies the given transformer by the total
transformation incurred by the graphic's parents, if any.

Unless otherwise noted, input and output coordinates are relative to the
coordinate system defined by the graphic's transformer.
.TP
.B "virtual void GetBounds(float& left, float& bottom, float& right, float& top)"
Return the exact coordinates of the smallest box circumscribing the graphic.
The return values are in absolute coordinates.
.TP
.B "void GetBox(Coord& left, Coord& bottom, Coord& right, Coord& top)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void GetBox(BoxObj&)"
Return the smallest box circumscribing the graphic, in Coords.  
The return values are in absolute coordinates. A
\fBBoxObj\fP represents a rectangle defined by lower
left and upper right coordinates.  \fBBoxObj\fP is defined in
<InterViews/Graphic/geomobjs.h>.
.TP
.B "virtual void GetCenter(float& x, float& y)"
Return the center point of the graphic in absolute coordinates.
.TP
.B "virtual boolean Contains(PointObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "virtual boolean Intersects(BoxObj&)"
Return whether or not the graphic contains the given point or intersects the
given rectangular area specified in absolute coordinates.
\fBPointObj\fP, defined in <InterViews/Graphic/geomobjs.h>, describes a point.
.TP
.B "void CenterVert(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void CenterHoriz(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Center(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AlignLeft(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AlignRight(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AlignTop(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AlignBottom(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AbutLeft(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AbutRight(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AbutUp(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void AbutDown(Graphic*)"
Position the given graphic relative to \fIthis\fP.  The graphic that
performs the operation stays fixed, while the graphic supplied as the
argument is translated appropriately.
.SH DRAWING OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "virtual void Draw(Canvas*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "virtual void Erase(Canvas*)"
Draw draws the graphic on the given canvas using its current
state.  Erase erases the
graphic by temporarily setting its foreground color equal to its background 
color and then drawing it.
.TP
.B "virtual void Draw(Canvas*, Coord left, Coord bottom, Coord right, Coord top)"
.ns
.TP
.B "virtual void Erase(Canvas*, Coord left, Coord bottom, Coord right, Coord top)"
Draw or erase the graphic on the canvas within the given bounding
box, specified in absolute coordinates, without using fine clipping.  The
bounding box should be used simply as a hint about the graphic's visibility.
.TP
.B "virtual void DrawClipped(Canvas*, Coord left, Coord bottom, Coord right, Coord top)"
.ns
.TP
.B "virtual void EraseClipped(Canvas*, Coord left, Coord bottom, Coord right, Coord top)"
Draw or erase the graphic on the canvas strictly within the given bounding
box, specified in absolute coordinates.
.SH DERIVED CLASSES AND OPERATIONS
The following derived class are predefined.  In addition to the
inherited operations, each derived class defines a
\fBGetOriginal(...)\fP operation that returns the values supplied
to the constructor when the object was created.
.TP
.B "Point(Coord x, Coord y, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Line(Coord x0, Coord y0, Coord x1, Coord y1, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "MultiLine(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a point, line, or set of connected lines at the specified coordinates,
optionally having the same state as the given graphic.
.TP
.B "Ellipse(Coord x0, Coord y0, int r1, int r2, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "FillEllipse(Coord x0, Coord y0, int r1, int r2, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define an ellipse or filled ellipse with center at
(\fIx0\fP,\fIy0\fP) and radii \fIr1\fP and \fIr2\fP.
.TP
.B "Circle(Coord x0, Coord y0, int radius, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "FillCircle(Coord x0, Coord y0, int radius, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a circle or filled circle with center at
(\fIx0\fP,\fIy0\fP) and radius \fIradius\fP.
.TP
.B "Rect(Coord x0, Coord y0, Coord x1, Coord y1, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "FillRect(Coord x0, Coord y0, Coord x1, Coord y1, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a rectangle or filled rectangle at the specified coordinates.
.TP
.B "Polygon(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "FillPolygon(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a polygon or filled polygon specified by the \fIn\fP vertices.
.TP
.B "BSpline(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "ClosedBSpline(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "FillBSpline(Coord* x, Coord* y, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a B-spline specified by the \fIn\fP control vertices.
If closed or filled, the last point is connected to the first point.
.TP
.B "Label(char* string, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Label(char* string, int n, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
Define a string or substring of text.  If background fill mode is on, then
the characters are drawn in the foreground color and other pixels within
character boundaries are set to the background color.  If background fill
mode is off, only the foreground pixels are set.
.TP
.B "Picture(Graphic* graphic = nil)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::Append(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::Prepend(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::InsertAfterCur(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::InsertBeforeCur(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::Remove(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::RemoveCur()"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::SetCurrent(Graphic*)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::GetCurrent()"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::First()"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::Last()"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::Next()"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::Prev()"
.ns
.TP
.B "boolean Picture::IsEmpty()"
.ns
.TP
.B "boolean Picture::AtEnd()"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::FirstGraphicContaining(PointObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::LastGraphicContaining(PointObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Picture* Picture::GraphicsContaining(PointObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::FirstGraphicIntersecting(BoxObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Graphic* Picture::LastGraphicIntersecting(BoxObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "Picture* Picture::GraphicsIntersecting(BoxObj&)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Picture::Propagate()"
A \fBPicture\fP is a graphic that contains other graphics.  A picture has
its own state which is ``concatenated'' with the state of its
constituent graphics (subgraphics) when the picture is drawn or erased.  The
semantics of concatentation are that subgraphics are drawn with the
picture's state information substituted for their own, except for
attributes that are undefined (nil) in the picture; the subgraphics'
individual attributes are used for these values.  Furthermore, each
subgraphic's transformer is postmultiplied by the picture's transformer when
the picture is drawn, so that subgraphics are drawn relative to the
picture's coordinate system.

Several operations are defined on Picture to allow subgraphics to be added,
removed, and manipulated.  Append and Prepend allow subgraphics to be added
to the beginning and end of the picture, respectively.  Subgraphics are
drawn starting from the beginning of the picture, so that the most recently
appended graphic is drawn last.  Each picture maintains a pointer to its
``current'' subgraphic which can be set explicitly using SetCurrent and
retrieved with GetCurrent.  InsertAfterCur and InsertBeforeCur insert a
graphic after or before the current subgraphic, respectively.  Remove and
RemoveCur remove a subgraphic from the picture.  First and Last return the
first and last graphics in the picture. Next and Prev return the subgraphic
following and preceding the current one, respectively, and set the current
subgraphic to the value returned.  IsEmpty returns whether or not the
picture has any subgraphics, and AtEnd returns \fItrue\fP if the current
subgraphic pointer has been advanced past the last subgraphic.  

FirstGraphicContaining, LastGraphicContaining, FirstGraphicIntersecting,
LastGraphicIntersecting return the first or last graphic in the picture that
contains the given point or intersects the given box.  GraphicsContaining and
GraphicsIntersecting return a new picture containing those subgraphics that
contain the given point or intersect the given box, respectively.

Finally, Propagate modifies the graphics state of the picture's subgraphics
by concatenating in place each subgraphic's state with the picture's own.
This is useful when the subgraphics should retain their appearance after
removal from the picture.  The picture's transformer is set to nil following
the propagation to avoid concatenating its coordinate transformation twice.
.TP
.B "Instance(Graphic* obj = nil, Graphic* graphic = nil)"
An \fBInstance\fP of a graphic consists of all the usual
state plus a reference to another graphic specified by \fIobj\fP.
When drawn or erased, the
instance concatenates the state of the graphic it references with its own.
.SH FILES
<InterViews/Graphic/ppaint.h>	persistent paint objects
.br
<InterViews/Graphic/geomobjs.h>	persistent geometry objects
.SH SEE ALSO
Canvas(2I), Transformer(2I), GraphicBlock(3I), Painter(2I), Persistent(3I)
