.TH DEPICT 3X CIRES
.SH NAME
depict,assess \- do shaded contour diagrams on the printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B "call assess(a,m,n,mdim,z,nlev)"
.PP
.B "call depict(a,m,n,mdim,z,nlev,iwd)"
.PP
.B "real a(mdim,n), z(nlev)"
.PP
.B "integer*2 m,n,mdim,nlev,iwd"
.PP
f77 flag: \fB-lCf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIDepict\fR is used to make simple contour plots
(with alternating dark and light bands),
which are sent to the standard output.
The contour levels may be set by the user.
If self-scaling is preferred,
a prior call to \fIassess\fR will produce levels
at values which are at "nice" intervals
between the extreme values to be plotted.
(In finding the extremes \fIassess\fR attempts to avoid
being fooled by spikes).
.PP
The arguments in \fIdepict\fR are:
.IP \fBa\fR
array of values to be plotted.
.IP \fBm\fR
number of rows to be plotted.
.IP \fBn\fR
number of columns to be plotted.
.IP \fBmdim\fR
actual dimension of the first index of \fBa\fR
(as dimensioned in the calling program).
.IP \fBz\fR
array of contour levels, in order of increasing value.
.IP \fBnlev\fR
number of elements in \fBz\fR.
Because of internal dimensioning, \fBnlev\fR cannot exceed 19.
.IP \fBiwd\fR
1 if output will be on a 132 column line printer,
-1 if it will be on an 80-column terminal.
.PP
The arguments in \fIassess\fR are the same
as in \fIdepict\fR, except
.IP \fBz\fR
returns a set of contour levels at "nice" intervals.
.IP \fBnlev\fR
input as approximate number of levels wanted,
returned as actual number in \fBz\fR.
.PP
Unless a common block is altered (see below),
in the final plot the elements of \fBa\fR will be at the
corners of cells 4 characters wide and 3
characters high, which is nearly square.
(Thus, every other character,
reading vertically,
and every third character,
reading horizontally,
corresponds to a data value).
The values of the intermediate points
are found using bilinear interpolation.
If the number of columns of \fBa\fR is too many
for the width of the output device,
as many columns as possible (starting from the left)
will be done to start;
when these have been plotted, an
additional "page" (or pages) will
plot the right hand part of the matrix.
At the end \fIdepict\fR prints a list showing
the range of values encompassed by each
symbol.
.PP
\fBN.B.\fR - The Versatec will automatically skip
a few lines at the paper folds (causing a break in
the plot), unless the control switch inside it
is set to "roll". After use, be sure to reset this
switch to "fan fold".
.PP
To alter the size of a plot cell,
the elements of the labelled common block /square/
must be changed.
This block is:
.PP
.B "common /square/ iwide,itall,xlen,ylen"
.PP
and is normally set by a data statement inside \fIdepict\fR
.PP
.B "data iwide,itall,xlen,ylen /4,3,0.,0./
.PP
Changing \fBiwide\fR and \fBitall\fR will change the
size of a unit cell.
If you wish instead to set the plot size in inches,
set \fBxlen\fR to be the height and \fBylen\fR the
length in inches.
The cell size will then be computed assuming 10
columns and 6 lines per inch.
This is a good approximation for a line printer,
but \fInot\fR for the Versatec.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If the levels in \fBz\fR are not strictly increasing,
\fIdepict\fR will re-order them and send an error
message to the standard output.
.SH AUTHOR
R. L. Parker (UCSD);
modified for UNIX/f77 by R. P. Buland (USGS - Golden)
and D. C. Agnew (CIRES).
.SH SPONSOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
