.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH HANN 3X CIRES
.SH NAME
hann, prol \- taper a data series
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall hann(x,n)
.PP
\fBcall prol(x,n)
.PP
\fBreal x(n)
.PP
\fBinteger*2 n\fR
.PP
f77 flag: \fB-lCm\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Before taking the fourier transform of a data series,
it may be advisable to multiply it by a window function
to reduce the leakage of energy from one frequency band to
another.
These subroutines provide two windowing functions:
\fIhann\fR windows the data by a 1+cos(t) or Hanning
taper, \fIprol\fR by a 4$pi$ prolate spheroidal taper.
The Hanning taper reduces sideband energy
(the first sidelobe is 32 db down, as against 13 db for
no windowing,
with a falloff of 18 db/octave),
and slightly widens any peaks present.
The prolate taper
(developed by D. J. Thomson)
widens spectral peaks by a factor of 4
but reduces sideband energy to negligible
levels (100 db or more down).
Both these routines use polynomial approximations;
\fIhann\fR also makes maximum use of the symmetry of
the taper to minimize computation.
The arguments are:
.IP \fBx\fR
array to be windowed.
.IP \fBn\fR
length of the array.
.PP
The sum of the squares of the weights used for tapering
are 1.5\fBn\fR for \fIhann\fR, \fBn\fR for \fIprol\fR.
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
F. J. Harris (1978) "On the use of windows for harmonic
analysis with the discrete fourier transform",
\fIProc. IEEE,\fB 66\fR, 51-83.
.PP
D. J. Thomson (1977) "Spectrum estimation techniques for
characterization and development of WT4 waveguide",
\fIBell Sys. Tech. J.,\fB 56\fR, 1769-1815.
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
.SH SPONSOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
.SH BUGS
The tapers are intended for use with \fBn\fR even;
if it is odd, the tapering will be nearly correct,
but shifted by one point.
