.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH KRNER 3X CIRES
.SH NAME
krner \- construct zero phase shift filters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall krner(db,cb1,tbw,cb2,norm,itype,nwal,np,bk)
.PP
\fBreal db, cb1, tbw, cb2, bk(nwal)
.PP
\fBinteger*2 norm, itype, nwal, np
.PP
f77 flag: \fB-lCm\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This subroutine generates finite impulse response
filters which (with one exception)
are symmetric and have an odd number of weights.
These filters thus introduce a delay of
an integral number of samples,
equivalent to a linear phase shift
when they are convolved with a data series.
If this delay is allowed for, the phase shift is zero.
(The differentiator is of course antisymmetric
and so introduces a delay plus a phase shift of 90 degrees).
The filters computed are nearly equiripple filters,
meaning that the maximum departure from the ideal
response is about the same in the passband and stopband.
The arguments are:
.IP \fBdb\fR
stopband attenuation, in decibels.
If this is $x$, the maximum error in the passband or
stopband will be $10 sup (-x/20)$.
.IP \fBcb1\fR
frequency of the center of the lower transition band
(for a highpass or lowpass, the only one),
given in fractions of the Nyquist frequency.
.IP \fBtbw\fR
the total width of the transition band(s),
in Nyquists.
(the lower transition band, for example, runs from
\fBcb1\fR -$half$\fBtbw\fR to \fBcb1\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR).
.IP \fBcb2\fR
frequency of the upper transition band, in Nyquists.
(used only in bandpass or bandstop filters, and ignored
otherwise).
.IP \fBnorm\fR 
if this is set to 1, the response at 0 frequency is
set to exactly 1 or 0 (depending on the filter type).
This will cause the average passband gain to depart from 1.
.IP \fBitype\fR 
filter type.
The possibilities (and amplitude responses) are:
.IP
1 - lowpass (1 from f=0 to \fBcb1\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 0 from \fBcb1\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR to 1).
.IP
2 - highpass (0 from f=0 to \fBcb1\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 1 from \fBcb1\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR to 1).
.IP
3 - bandpass (0 from f=0 to \fBcb1\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 1 from \fBcb1\fR+$half$tbw
to \fBcb2\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 0 from \fBcb2\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR to 1).
.IP
4 - bandstop (1 from f=0 to \fBcb1\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 0 from \fBcb1\fR+$half$tbw
to \fBcb2\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 1 from \fBcb2\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR to 1).
.IP
5 - differentiator ($pi$f from f=0 to \fBcb1\fR-$half$\fBtbw\fR; 0 from \fBcb1\fR+$half$\fBtbw\fR to 1).
To make the phase shift exactly 90 degrees,
this differentiator does a centered difference,
so that the first point output (the
center of the final filter) is 0.
.IP \fBnwal\fR
dimension of array \fBbk\fR, which holds weights.
.IP \fBnp\fR 
number of weights returned.
Only one half of the filter is computed;
the total filter length is 2\fBnp\fR - 1.
.IP \fBbk\fR 
array holding weights, given from the center of the filter going to
the right.
The final array of weights is gotten by
replicating this array (except for the first point,
which is the center point of the final filter),
antisymmetrically for the differentiator,
symmetrically for the others.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If more weights are needed than there is room for,
an error message is sent to the error output.
(As a rough guide, the value returned for \fBnp\fR is
approximately (\fBdb\fR-8)/14\fBtbw\fR).
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES), based on algorithims given by
J. F. Kaiser and W. A. Reed, \fIRev. Sci. Instr.,\fB 48\fR,
1447, and \fB49\fR, 1103.
.SH SPONSOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
