.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH MFFT 3X CIRES
.SH NAME
.PP
mfft \- forward and inverse fourier transform of a real series
of length $2 sup m$
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBlen = mfft(n,x,ndir)
.PP
\fBreal x(n+2)
.PP
\fBinteger*2 n,ndir,mfft
.PP
f77 flag: \fB-lCm\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIMfft\fR is used to find the fourier transform
of a real series,
or the inverse transform of a complex
series which is hermitian
(and hence the transform of a real series).
The arguments are:
.IP \fBn\fR
the number of terms in the input series.
Only powers of 2 are acceptable
to the fft algorithim used.
The program finds the largest acceptable length
not exceeding \fBn\fR. 
This is the number of terms actually used;
this value is returned by \fImfft\fR.
.IP \fBx\fR 
the array to be transformed.
It is always overwritten by the result.
If the forward transform is done, the $N$ input
terms
(supposing $N$ to be the length taken)
are transformed;
the output is then $N + 2$ values which are
(alternating) real and imaginary parts of the 
fourier transform at $half N + 1$ frequencies,
from 0 to the Nyquist.
If the inverse transform is done, the $N + 2$
input terms (alternating real and imaginary parts)
will be transformed to a real series of length $N$.
(The two extra terms hold the imaginary part of the
transform at DC and the Nyquist; 
for a real series these are always zero).
.IP \fBndir
this governs the direction of the transform and the
sign convention used.
If abs(\fBndir\fR) is 1, the forward transform is done;
if it is 2, the inverse transform,
and any other values give an error.
.PP
Denote the time-domain series by \fIx\fR,
and its transform by \fIX\fR.
If \fBndir\fR >0, the transforms computed are
.PP
.EQ
X sub m ~~=~~{1 over N} sum from k=0 to N-1 ~ x sub k e sup{{2 pi imk} over
N} ~~~~~~~~ x sub k ~~=~~sum from m=0 to N-1 ~ X sub m
e sup{{-2 pi imk} over N}
.EN
.PP
If \fBndir\fR < 0, the signs of the exponents
are reversed from those shown.
In either case,
applying the forward followed by the inverse
transform will return the original series.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If \fBndir\fR is not $+- 1$ or $+- 2$, or \fBn\fR
$<= 0$, \fImfft\fR does nothing and returns
a value of -1.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIffttwo\fR(3X), \fIlfft\fR(3X)
.SH AUTHOR
R. P. Buland (USGS - Golden)
.SH SPONSOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
