.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH SEND12 3X CIRES
.SH NAME
.PP
send12, rcur12 \- low-level communication with Tektronix
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall send12(ix,iy,isw)
.PP
\fBcall rcur12(ix,iy,char)
.PP
\fBinteger*2 ix,iy,isw
.PP
\fBcharacter*1 char
.PP
f77 flag: \fB-lCf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These two routines transmit graphics data to or from
a Tektronix 4010, 4012, or 4014.
Subroutine \fIsend12\fR writes out graphics data or special commands;
when the adjustable crosshairs are displayed and a character
typed on the keyboard,
\fIrcur12\fR returns the character and the screen coordinates of
the crosshair intersection.
.PP
The arguments in \fIsend12\fR are:
.IP \fBisw\fR
= 2: draw a dark vector to (\fBix, iy\fR). This puts the terminal in
graphics mode if it is not already.
.IP
= 1: draw a bright vector to (\fBix, iy\fR).
.IP
= 0: ignore \fBiy\fR and use \fBix\fR as a control flag for special purposes
(see below).
.IP
= -1: flush internal buffer, ignoring \fBix\fR and \fBiy\fR.
.IP "\fBix, iy\fR"
for \fBisw\fR = 1 or 2, the coordinates to be moved to on the screen,
with 0 $<=$ \fBix\fR $<=$ 1024 and 0 $<=$ \fBiy\fR $<=$ 780.
.IP \fBix\fR
for \fBisw\fR = 0, take the following actions:
.IP
-9: erase the screen.
.IP
-10: send nulls (to delay). Each null causes a delay of at least
100/b seconds, where b is the baud rate of the terminal.
For a terminal running at 9600 baud, with a screen latency
time of 1 second, 96 calls are needed after the screen is
erased.
.IP
-11: set the terminal to alpha mode.
.IP
-12: get the position of the alpha cursor.
.IP
-13: turn on the adjustable crosshairs.
.sp 1
.PP
The arguments in \fIrcur12\fR are:
.IP "\fBix, iy\fR"
position of the adjustable crosshairs, in screen units
(0 $<=$ \fBix\fR $<=$ 1024, 0 $<=$ \fBiy\fR $<=$ 780).
.IP \fBchar\fR
character typed at keyboard.
.PP
Note that after a call to \fIrcur12\fR, the cursor
must be turned on again by calling \fIsend12\fR twice
(once to flush the buffer).
.SH AUTHOR
R. P. Buland (USGS - Golden)
.SH SPONSOR
D. C. Agnew (CIRES)
