.TH IPSCRIPT 1
.SH NAME
ipscript \- convert bit image into postscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipscript
[option] ... [file] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ipscript
reads bit images from standard input (or files if specified) and produces
postscript output, suitable for sending to any postscript device (such
as an Apple Laserwriter) or for using with any program that expects
postscript input (such as a postscript interpreter used to drive some
other raster device).
In the output, grey levels are represented by a halftoning technique,
whereby a grid of halftone cells is produced from the input data.
The default frequency of halftone cells is 60 per inch, and an angle of 45 degrees.
(Alterable using the
.B \-f
and
.B \-p
options.)
The following options are understood:
.TP
.B \-wWidth
The image produced will be the given width (in cm).
This may be a real number.
The default is 18 cm.
.TP
.B \-hHeight
The image will be produced with the given height (in cm).
This may be a real number.
The default is 12cm.
.TP
.B \-aAspect
The image will be produced with the given aspect ratio.
The default aspect ratio is 1.5 (width/height).
If both width and height are specified on the command line,
the aspect ratio will be determined from these, rather than
this argument.
.TP
.B \-bBits
This argument controls the output resolution (ie the number of grey
levels used).
It may be any of 1, 2, 4, or 8 for 2, 4, 16 or 256 output grey
levels respectively.
The default is 8 bits.
.TP
.B \-gGrey
This (signed integer) value can be used to offset the input grey level by
a fixed amount.
It can be used to brighten or darken images.
.TP
.B \-yScanlines
This value determines the number of pixels along the Y axis of
the input image.
This is the number of scanlines of the input.
The default is 256.
.TP
.B \-xScanlength
This value is the number of pixels along the X axis of the input image.
This is the length of an input scanline.
The default is 256.
.TP
.B \-fFrequency
This value determines the output frequency in halftone cells/inch.
The default is device dependant, but is 60 for the Apple LaserWriter.
.TP
.B \-pAngle
Specifies the angle (in degrees) at which the output halftone cell
grid is rotated.
The default is device dependant, but is 45 for the Apple LaserWriter.
.TP
.B \-iFormat
This argument specifies the input format and resolution.
It consists of a character ('b' or 'x') followed by a value.
The character specifies the form of the input: whether input data
is given in raw bytes or in hex notation.
The following value gives the input greyscale resolution - the number
of bits representing the image which may appear in the input.
If hex input format is being used and the greyscale resolution is
less than or equal to 4 bits, single hex bytes are read, otherwise pairs
of hex bytes are read to achieve a resolution of up to 8 bits.
The default is 'b8' - bytes with a possible value of from 0 to 255.
Input is scaled using this information and the number of output
grey levels (if necessary).
.TP
.B \-sSkip
Directs \fIipscript\fP to skip the given no. of bytes at the start
of the input file.
This is useful for files which have headers at the beginning.
For example, Macquarie Uni satellite photos have a 128 byte header.
.TP
.B \-r[angle]
This argument specifies an image rotation in degrees.
If '-r' is given with no value, 90 is assumed, which results in landscape
mode being used (long axis of paper horizontal).
The default is 0, which is portrait mode (long axis of paper vertical).
.TP
.B \-n
Print the negative of the image. That is, reverse black and white.
.TP
.B \-S
Use manual feed instead of feeding from the paper tray.
.TP
.B \-L
Print using legal page type - 17.8 by 31.8 cm (7 by 12.5 inches) imageable
region, centred
on a 21.6 by 35.6 cm (8.5 by 14 inch) page.
The default (letter) paper type uses a 20.3 by 26.7 cm (8 by 10.5 inch)
imageable region, centred on a 21.6 by 27.9 cm (8.5 by 11 inch) page.
.SH SEE ALSO
ditroff(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Stephen Frede, UNSW, Australia
