.TH SHAPE 2I "15 June 1987" "InterViews" "InterViews Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
Shape \- what shape a Canvas should have
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <InterViews/shape.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
A shape specifies the desired characteristics of a canvas.
An interactor should set the fields of its shape when it is created and
notify its parent if any of these fields change.
.PP
The dimensions of a shape are defined by a ``natural'' size,
a stretch amount, and a shrink amount.
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIheight\fP fields indicate the desired sizes
(or any size if \fIwidth\fP is zero).
The \fIhstretch\fP, \fIvstretch\fP, \fIhshrink\fP, \fIvshrink\fP fields
define how flexible these desired sizes are.
For example, an interactor may have a natural size of 100, but can
adequately handle any size between 50 and 200.
The stretchability for this case would be 100 and the shrinkability 50.
.PP
The constants \fIhfil\fP and \fIvfil\fP are provided to indicate
``infinite'' stretching or shrinking.
They are represented as very large numbers and manipulated exactly
the same as other stretch and shrink parameters.
.PP
The \fIaspect\fP field specifies the desired aspect ratio.
A value of zero means any aspect is acceptable.
No scenes currently support this field.
.PP
The \fIhunits\fP and \fIvunits\fP fields indicate that
the canvas dimensions should be multiples of some values.
No scenes currently support these fields.
.SH PUBLIC OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "Shape()"
.br
Create a new shape with no desired size (zero width and height) and
infinite stretchability and shrinkability in both directions.
.TP
.B "void Rect(int width, int height)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Square(int side)"
Short-hand for setting the dimensions of the shape.
Square sets both dimensions to \fIside\fP and sets the aspect ratio to one.
.TP
.B "void Rigid(int hshrink, int hstretch, int vshrink, int vstretch)"
.ns
.TP
.B "void Rigid()"
Set the stretchability and shrinkability fields of the shape.
If no arguments are specified, the fields are set to zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
Canvas(2I), Interactor(2I), Scene(2I)
