Instructions for installing the vt100 panel emulator on a SUN:

1. Decide where you will keep your vt100 fonts and change the
definition of MAIN_FONT_DIR in vconfig.h. Put the 32 font files that
are in the subdirectory "fontdir" in that directory.

2. Decide if you will keep the library files in a subdirectory called
libdir under your main vt100tool source directory. If not, change the
LIBDIR variable in the makefile for vt100tool.

3. cd to LIBDIR and run make. This makes a copy of libsuntool.a from
your current /usr/lib and modifies it with the binary (.o) files from
this distribution. This step was necessary because some of the
vt100tool depends on changes made to proprietary SMI library routines
and I do not feel I can provide the source for these to installation
unless they have a source license from SMI.  This will insure that any
new changes which you or SMI has made to your libsuntool.a are
retained in your emulator. It does not guarantee these will not
conflict with the current implementation of vt100tool.

4. Go back to the main vt100tool source directory and run make.

5. Install vt100tool whereever you like. Test it with vttest from Per
Lindstrom if you have it. If you don't, a source version is included
in the distribution of vt100tool. Just compile it for your SUN and
execute it inside of vt100tool.

6. Install the manual page: vt100tool.1. Don't forget to tell any host
or shell that asks that you are a vt100, NOT a SUN!!! In fact, you
should also run your .login program on your Sun when you execute
vt100tool and tell the UNIX shell that you are a vt100.

6. Report bugs to me <Ed Lafferty, MITRE> and I will try to fix them
or tell you how to work around them.

Good Luck,

Ed Lafferty

----------------------------------->>
External:                           Internal Mail addresses at MITRE: 

<ell@mitre-bedford.ARPA>	    <ell@mbunix>                      
<ell@linus.UUCP>		    <ell@linus>                       
				    <ell@mbvm>                        
				                                      


